Attending: Chris S, Melanie C., Jennifer F., Alan R., Bjoern P.
>
> Role call:
> Jennifer, Alan and Melanie agree to have a role call on friday at 1h30
> EST. Alan will circulate the owl file and his list of questions
> previously.
>
> Vancouver workshop:
> - maybe no need for break out sessions as low number of attendees
> - few more possible persons: Matthew Pocock, Suzi Lewis, Chris Mungall
>
> - are the Lilly people coming?
> -> Alan will check on possible additional attendees
>
> Questions for advisors
> 1/ gaps in ontology coverage
> - e.g., no quantitative values (note: Alan Rector has way of doing
> this)
> 2/ CS: issues resolved or postponed in OBI, general use of roles
> 3/ CS: old issues with biomaterial:
>       1.biomaterial hard to define: something of interest, biological
> origin?
>       2. granularity (Frank, Matthew)
>       3. multiple inheritance
> 4/ General properties, eg definition, overall structure of OBI
>
> 5/ CS: uses cases/competency questions
> how to apply use cases and competency questions to OBI.
> question for advisors: given these questions and the current status
> of OBI
> are we ready?
> AR: want to sollicit Robert and Frank to get new questions (relevant
> for
> use with NCIt, Mygrid, etc.)
> AR: Frank (in the context of the Thesaurus) and curators are trying
> to do
> fair amount of logical definition. This will be the next step for
> OBI, put
> more logical definitions in. We should get his advice on that.
>
>
> Biomaterial branch:
> MC: problems with top level hierarchy (cf above) not sure what is a
> biomaterial. hard to clean up without that.
> AR: suggests clean up of the terms, without trying to move them
> around.
> Having definitions etc for each of them will ease process
> MC: agreed. James volunteered to help.
>
> Relation worskhop (AR)
> next may. general development has been slow. We might want to gather
> questions for them.
>
> Roadmap for review:
> CS will create email, send to advisors and follow up with phone calls.
> AR will contact them now, try to get them for the workshop and start
> talking about these issues with them.
>
>
> OBO policies
> Suzi sent out a draft on obo-discuss saying: "In the spirit of new
> beginnings a few of us (myself and those on the cc line above)  have
> -drafted- a write-up that describes what the OBO Foundry is all
> about and
> how we want it to work. We did this because there have been a lot of
> questions and some confusion about what we're attempting here. This
> is an
> attempt to answer these questions and to make everything more clear."
> I attach the draft I am unable (as Alan pointed out) to find the
> mail on
> sourceforge.
> It would be useful for us to comment on this and send feedback on the
> obo-discuss list.
>
> Notes from San Diego workshop
> BP pointed out that they don't seem to be on the wiki. CS will check
> which
> pages have been created during this event and will try and track
> down the
> minutes.
> BP also says that it would be helpful to not rediscuss old issues that
> have already been sorted out.
> We should keep track of solutions, in the OWL file (editor notes
> field for
> example) and on the wiki, on the current action items page
> https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/ActionItems (to be
> posted:
> summary of issue, and solution + pointer to the discussion on the
> mailing
> list if available)
>
> NCBO Call
>
> AR mentioned this, as a potential opportunity for us. This will ba
> added
> to the agenda for the next coordinator call, next week.
>
> 9th of january: coordinator call
> Next developer call: 16th of january

