Developers call July 18 2007.

Attending: Jennifer F, Bjoern P, Gilberto F, Tina B, Bill B, Chris S. (note: call in number from the UK had changed without notice preventing others from calling in.

Aim - resolving items where no conclusion was reached at the Bethesda workshop

Discussion:

    * Ontology development issue on Biomaterial/ Instrument hierarchy will not be resolved through email. As it affects multiple branches, it should be addressed through a specified developers call with supporting documents posted for developers to think about. It was proposed that a wiki page be put up with a summary of the discussion so far, alternative hierarchies being considered, and their pros and cons. Bill Bug has volunteered to start this page. The ontology development issues of batch/ lot number and reagents should probably be handled is a similar way.
    * NSF proposal due end of August. Alan R (not on the call) had raised at the OBI workshop, the possibility of applying for a NSF grant (http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2007/nsf07565/nsf07565.htm). The idea is that Alan would supervise a full time OBI developer, provide training at Science Commons to OBI developers, and help support OBI workshops. Unfortunately, it turns out that Science Commons wants to submit a different proposal for the NSF call and does not want to compete with itself on the OBI grant. Bjoern has looked into his institution being the lead on an OBI proposal with the aims previously mentioned (full time developer working with Alan, etc.) and has volunteered to circulate a draft budget page to see whether we can get agreement on who would do what and with what funds. 

AA1. Bill B. will start a wiki page for the artefact/ intrument/ biomaterial discussion

AA2. Bjoern P. will circulate a draft document for the NSF application to nail down PIs and institutions involved. 
