Minutes from Developers Call 26 March 2008
Chair: James Malone
Attending: James M, Chris S, Melanie C, Ryan B, Bill B, Alan R, Daniel S

*ISMB abstract discussion is deferred to coord list, as discussed in emails.  Discussion on authorship 
policy is added to next coord call.

*6 outstanding issues from last week’s call
**We still require a majority vote to carry these motions so vote to be set up on wiki – closing date 2 
weeks – James to add and email round to ask for people to vote

*Existing Open Votes
**Tracking system vote closing 31st March – need to send email reminder to list (James will do)

*Website wording
**’Medical Investigations’ will be changed to ‘clinical investigations’ on the website since the former 
phrase is associated with very negative connotations when searched for (e.g. google search for 
‘medical experiment’) (Alan will do) 

*Capturing a terms provenance 
**Issue of capturing a term’s submitted was raised.  The general feeling is this could be useful 
information to capture but we do not want to add another annotation property at this stage.  Plan is 
to use definition_source and add notation such as “Term Submitted By:”  preceding the name to 
indicate this information (which could later be parsed and automatically added to another property if 
required).

*Dealing with non-OBO Foundry ontologies
**There may be a need to import/utilize external ontologies that are non-OBO foundry, e.g. John 
Westbrook’s PDBO.  Agreement is set of guidelines for dealing with these and should be applied on 
case by case basis, i.e. depending upon ontology, terms, usage.
** General Guidelines: 
***import of obo foundry is ok, 
***non-foundry can either take the terms from the ontology and add to obi (not import) or use ‘lazy 
import’ using mapping in external.owl
***as always discuss/communicate with ontology owners and inform about obo foundry if required 
 
*SVN Restructuring
**No objections to suggested new structure outlined in google doc, restructuring to occue early 
April (Bill and Alan to do)

*Chair Next Week
**Need a volunteer?
