We discussed on todays call:

1) The procedure for automatic checks for release send out by MC two weeks
ago was approved
(see
http://groups.google.com/group/obi-developer/browse_thread/thread/dc40a6a300
c466c4?hl=en)

2) Function -> protocol application issues were discussed.
In conclusion:
- Bjoern will re-send an email he believes concluded the discussion on how
to proceed.
-  Bill + Liju will point out what is still unclear/problematic in the
process outlined in that email. This discussion will involve the role,
protocol application and function branch.
- Once the process is clarified, the terms submitted as functions to Bill by
the instrument branch will be used as examples on how the process will deal
with these term needs. This will likely involve adding to terms to the
protocol application and role branch.
- The result will be documented and reported back to Barry and the
instrument branch. If it is liked, we are all happy.

3) Nobody new what the agenda iterm "uses branch - Jennifer" was.
AI: Jennifer to clarify and add to the agenda for the next call.

4) organization discussion - the proposal send out by Bjoern outlined how we
can move forward with development (not: resolving exactly what organizations
are). This will be the starting point to move forward
AI: biomaterial branch to put the necessary definitions for organization
into owl

5) The rest of the call was spend going over workshop action items, in order
to retire/remove/or track progress on them.
AI: BP and MC will update the action item page
AI: MC will ensure that all valid and ongoing action items have an item in
the tracker
AI: MC will move all AI marked as done to the bottom of the page
AI: next call, we will go through the remaining action items on the page in
the same fashion. BP volunteers to be the asshole chairing that call.
