Summary of action items

AI: (MC - Mar 12)  will change docs to say material entity not material
AI: (BB,AR - Mar 6) will go off line and put together a proposal and will
report by March 6pm and people can comment by end of week for strong
objections.
AI: (Branch editors - Mar 7) check that you have no wrong SVN keywords
(e.g. revision 80) in the file, due to a check-in issue
AI: (Branch editors - Mar 7) Each branch needs to check their curation
status. Till end week to deal with this. Will be added as default values
by script if not done by then.
AI: (All - Mar 19) All to look at import policy documentation


Notes

MC, BP, JM, HP, DS, PRS, AR

1. We add genome version no tracker item to DENRIE tasks in tracker

2. The Material example docs were produced, and have been available for
comment. No one has any comments so MC will add to OBI docs

BP. Suggest change to material entity - change of label.

MC:thought was done, is in the OWL file, all OK?

AI:MC will change docs to say material entity not material

3. Rotating chair suggestion - all on the call agree.

Bill and James volunteer.

Chris S joins.

4. Release issues - Ids from Alan

Goal was to switch to purl based ids. We discussed the form of the id, and
what the issues were. Changes from start proposal

A. all things have ids - relations, classes etc.
B. Simplified the url format so that these can be served as a page per
term, AR wants a prototype of this. Instead of purl.org in name have obo
foundry based url whose DNS entry is a purl.org. Good for maintenance
issues in future if purl disappears.
e.g. http://thing.obofoundry.org/obo/OBI_1234567

OBO coordinators have agreed.
All files have been converted. In process I had to make sure that all
terms had labels etc, and did other clean up. New versions are OWL DL. If
we agree then next step to register the DNS and the URL Of the ontology
will be

http://thing.obofoundry.org/obo/obi.owl

Need to do the redirects etc.

CS:why thing. ?
AR:obofoundry is an existing server, and would need redirects, this is bad
as need a redirect and needs a set up on obofoundry.org, adds a weak link.
We trust purl.org, redirect is mediated by domain name server - reliable.
No-one wanted obi.obofoundry.org, needs own sub domain to do the redirect.

thing is then purl.org in this case

DS:Looks OK - do we still need the last bit of the id and a guideline how
looks. How do we get these unique ids

AR:ids have been replaced by a script in svn, in cases where a non obi
formatted id allocates a new id, skips ones used. No problems in running
the script, but we are working towards checks e.g. detect missing labels
prior to release.

BB:problem need a manual oversight as tools like protege will look for a
namespace but that here this will not be related to OBI. The "namespace"
is generic, so we push the maintenance of the namespace to OBO. I am happy
to do that as long as there is someone to do that in OBO. I am not sure
that there is

AR:practically falls to coordinators, and Chris M and I do that. Should be
OK. Chris M needs to move his URIs, will prototype with this, I think he
will migrate to this scheme. We will need to add to foundry practices as
well.

BB:this is  a task

AR:we are already there for URL format. In terms of ids, the distinctness
is determined by the prefix before the underscore, and after that is down
to us. The only step needs care is that the purl redirects, that we only
use OBI_

BB:is someone responsible for avoiding id collisions? We can work in purl
and have a XML namespace that tools can use. Used to avoid colliding ids.
I am unclear why we don't do this as there are detriments.

AR:review process,
1. Controller of /obo guarantees that no-one else has a purl redirect for
OBO_ - already works for all their other ontologies
2. We will not get someone else taking the name space
3. Will we take anyone else's namespace? NO we will check that our ids
conform ok. we have control in both directions.
4. OBO foundry control top level domain in purl /obo - and this is where
our ids go - Chris Mungall has responsibility for that. The only change
made is that we have .thing - an extra level of protection

Bill Bug: BIRNLex and NIF ontologies use PURL.ORG but retain their unique
namespace.

AR:in display of an ontology that has multiple namespaces when using
labels, might see OBI:'cell division' in future would see obo:cell
division - label in mixed namespace env wouldn't show sources in protege -
they could fix that and we can ask for that.

BB:this is my point - we want to see sources in protege. Will we be doing
the same for the branches?  In other words, will all branches stop using
their own namespace, so we won't easily be able to tell in which branch a
term resides?

AR:we could never tell which branch a term comes from. Need to use an
annotation property to do that.

* lost some text about slashes and protege here *

Bill Bug: Are both "/" and "#" really just conventions where each tool has
its own unique heuristic to separate a namespace from the "local name"? We
make more work here, if we have in separate files and use namespaces we
can easily see which terms come from where.

AR:New element here - BB suggests URI includes the branch name, we split
into files, and kept the OBI namespace for all, whether we distribute as
one or many files not affected the namespace so far. We could do this,
harder to maintain. Is a con then to include the branch name.

AI:BB and AR will go off line and put together a proposal and will report
by March 6pm and people can comment by end of week for strong objections.

* needs to be done quickly for first release

AI:release is dependent on namespace issue above, and so Monday March 10
2008 will be new release date

MC:Issue with the SVN keywords. Could you explain.

BB: SVN subs key words to increment revisions etc. One of KW is revision,
syntax was mangled. E.g. revision 80  was the KW, now repaired and SVN
release if activated the KW each time you update or commit then this will
do autorevision.

AI:Branch editors, check that you have no e.g. revision 80 terms in the
file, due to a check-in issue

BP:Did BB implement curation status this? And how do I use it with my file?

BB:Change was made, that annotation property.owl file is added. Now we can
use it so we have OWL-DL. Use technique in protege, create an rdf list of
enum poss values, and then see a pull down list. Prior to that, all
current values must conform to the new annotation properties. Need to
check these in your file.

BP:OK suggest do this in the branch level, and need also a script to fix
this in case people don't do this

AR:Worried that the enum list will not work ok

BB:the current construct has enum class - is there for docs, and we are
not using it. Where we have instances, each one can have annotation prop
so they can have their own defs and pref labels. They don't enforce the
integrity. We need to use the RDF list to do that - in past if you do this
for an existing property where there are values protege will accept match
and will mangle/delete non match ones.

AI:Each branch needs to check their curation status. Till end week to deal
with this. Will be added as default values by script if not done by then.

AR:what Bill describes is a problem, if not used then why have in ontology

BB:we want the defs documented and the convenience of the enum list. This
is a one off.

MC:Two issues with implementation status - AR and BB have different views.
For the release, BP wants to deal with curation status at the branch
level, deadline e.g. end of the week and then if not met

* Discussion about imports

When imported a term from external source e.g. CL cell, replaced the id
with the source id. It still has all the annotation and has been added to
the biomaterial call.

AI:PRS will add to biomaterial call agenda and has been assigned CL issues
item in tracker

MC:reminder - import policy needs review by the end of the week.

AI:All to look at import policy docs

Bill Bug: There was also the issue of whether by re-assigning a CL term to
an OBI class, we'll be creating a multiple hierarchy for those consuming
ontologies importing both OBI and OBO CL.

AR:will be resolved when CL is BFO based, the only assertion is that CL is
material. If they do that ours will be redundant. May be other cases more
issues.

MC:Import mechanism is important for all, and we need to allow some more
time. Would rather postpone till next call and all OK.

AI:Import policy deferred for 2 weeks till 19 March to allow. MC will add
to agenda for that.
