Dev Call 4th June 2008

Chair James M
Attending: Alan R, Allyson L, Bjoern P, Chris S, Frank G, James M, Jennifer F, Liju F, Tina B

--
Style issues: Action Item: SAS and AR to sort offline and email group

--
Algorithm, workflow 
CS: Algorithm is a recipe of instructions and has specific objective to manipulate data
CS: workflow has additional functionality
FG: protocol(application), algorithm and workflow are all a set of instructions for a
particular process. They differ specifically by.
A workflow from a computational perspective is:
A workflow is a programmatic depiction of a sequence of operations and provides a mechanism to visualize and enact processes, such as complex data processing.
A workflow from a normal world perspective is the same as a protocol(application)
An algorithm a set of instructions for data processing, probably the preferred label for data transformation

BP: ongoing discussion about objective, non-realizable entity etc.  still waiting for ontology on information

--
Subclassing defined classes: link to rules on wiki 

AR: https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/DefinedClasses
BP: I thought lower level classes should be defined, not parents.
AR+FG: define classes without thinking about placement, just considering asserting what is true about a class and let reasoner place it

--
MS Ontology would we like to include this in OBI?  Alan reviewed ontology and discussed implications for MS ontology – they may be willing to collaborate with us.  Alan: we might need to evaluate their ontology and review and see if we can add them to OBI.  
JM: So we are talking about adding classes with new OBI ID and not importing?
Alan: Import will not work for the ontology as not OBO foundry compatible currently. 
JM: Options are 1) we work with them and help them get into OBO process and then can import them or 2) we incorporate them and work to get them into OBI  
Need discussion with community to find out what their mandate is.
Moved to Coor call next week as discussions touches on policy.

--
Website: Changes to templates as suggested by Melanie – all approved.

--
Agenda for f2f (add to coord call too):

Meeting Goal: to have 1.0 OBI release and agree on producing paper

AR: Roles discussion
AL: hoping to have an example of loading some OBI terms into my FuGE-based database, SyMBA (if time permits at meeting)

Help in setting composite resctrictions in Protégé

AR posted example:
'material entity' and ro:has_part some (cell and (ro:has_part some virus))
Remember to put quotations around term labels with space in them

--
Clean up of TheRest.owl: James volunteered - almost complete bar one class

--
Status of function (Bjoern)  
cf use case by DS, PRS and SAS at http://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=dg9kgrmp_1hjv9jnf6&hl=en - not had chance to look yet

--
Versioning of the release
number, date... (currently <owl:versionInfo xml:lang="en">1.0.530</owl:versionInfo>, 1.0 + SVN revision number) –
AR: no need to discuss (dropped from agenda)

--
Sourceforge tracker 
Please review/update your items. – all reminded


