FugO Meeting October 5th 2005:

Present:Helen, Ryan, Helen C, Philippe, Trish, Susanna, Chris T, Chris S, Gilberto, Norman, 


Missing:Jennifer, Liju, Norman, 

We agree to add Richard B. to the call he, had asked Chris about it.
We agree to put the stuff on the web so that the process is open and people don't need to get the stuff from us directly. Philippe will post these to the website.
Ryan:will minutes be included? We all agree. Trish will do the previous ones, Helen P will send around this set.
TW:Signed up all on current ad hoc group on sf, so everyone now is signed up. Still some details working out what to post.
CS:sep. of adv board and the coord committe and adv board wasn't clear
CT:wanted to keep these clear so that we do these together
TW/HP:both flagged the general structure of templates, HP - we may also not be able to have room to change things later
CS:agrees sees Units as an example
tw: yes, was trying to keep this broad
prs:is concerned that content has been lost
ct:will change the templates example, remove some of the specificity,
tw:had cut the first sentence, and hp had cut a lot of it
rb:wants an exec summary
ct:will go with HP version of the opening statement
tw/ct:will merge the two edits
tw:added something about adding reps from other communitities
ct:could add someone from lipidomics, not a tech defined field, same as metabolomics, e.g. glycomics have been going for a few way
tw:but when see if they get id'd would they want to be a community coordinators
ct:dn't want to be the un, want to keep ctee > 20, and club approach to membershp, would talk to them, considered sep admin ctte and coordination ctte, and aso together, two are not nec. exclusive/inclusive. Don't need to have them key - could work more like a franchise.
hc:If you are looking for interop then need to provide guidelines, and is our role to provide guidelines on how to do that.
ct:would be worth e.g a senior medical info person get then involved, small model organism may not want them central to a ctte. Re:franchise, their starter pack should contain abstract ontology, some tools and community etc - 
hp:are we not getting ahead of ourselves - 
prs:we do need a mechanism
tw:no not getting ahead of ourselves here, when we get back to ontology build
hp:I meant for this document
prs:but is only two pages long, can add to it
tw:to provide guidelines for the franchise activity and be less specific
cs:language as stands is indicative of the goals, without tying us to a structure
ct:looking at the bullets, doesn't say that the domain reps should be on the ctte, not all domains
hc:flexibilty is good, we can decide who should be on the board where the gaps are
ct:do we agree on this part
all:do not disagree
cs:second point, concerm that coord ctte is driving design, need enough rep of people working on it to ensure that this is an informed group, that are not just doing policy e.g. if members here are on call, are all members of coord ctte would feel more confortable with that
ct:think that is covered in para after the bullets, plus invited suppl, members - we can decide who goes on. That's ok for us to decide. What's here fits that.
CS:OK
CT:could make that more explicit
CS:not here, but think that if people agree with that interpretation then I am happy
CT:that was my intent, but without having to get into criteria
cs:came across in prev draft like there would be selectin, but not starting off with the people on the call
CS:these comments were central to my thinking
rb:flexibity is imp, if there are 20 - may be a hard cut off
hc:bottom line, we may not get that many people who are active
ct:get 12 on the calls, and the mail list has 15
ct:hoped that this call would be the dev call, and have a sep admin call
tw:fine, started as dev call, and need for some org tasks to be done, no problems with that
ct:admin or as coord, would have regular calls
rb:define regular
hp:weekly dev call, monthly admin call, we agree
ct:Examples of communities to be represented, take dev bio out of italics, if people have terms
cs:Richards are crop sciences people
ct:will take technologically designed points out, could people tell me if I should stop refering to technologies 
cs:I understand omics to be htp genome scale, we could define it and add some text.
prs:just write toxicol and nutriotion rather than the omics part.
hp:can we make it clear that it is not exhaustive list
ct:will fiddle with that
ss;should be clear from the words example
tw:adv board. I tried to change so that is advise, rather than signing off on ground rules and moving forward 
hp:that's what I also attempted
ct:wanted to make it clear that not a legislature and exec, one are invited
hp:was just the way that was expressed not the sentiment
tw:is there a need to say that transcriptomics/proteomics are covered by psi/mge - or is the * just needed for rsbi
ss:we forgot about these, mention mged, psi etc
tw:yes should we be complete there
ss:yes would be useful as these have owgs 
prs:is necessary, they are already raising the banner
we agree to add the * for MGED/PSI
prs:unclear in revision if HP was happy with the work with the adv board
hp:we can be transparent about future work, but it's a bit deterministic
ct:we can be open about this downstream, and minute that
hp:didn't think we had quite so much room for moving the way that is was expressed
cs:my interpet, most adv board members will not likely tell us what exactly t o do, but will more likely raise qus.
no more issues with this para
tw:I trimmed a lot from the working group part, just one working group - depends on mechanism that we use on dev and how we work with various groups. 
hp:will be dynamic, and we don't know how that will work
ct:for franchises, some list room for discussion for future groups
tw:group will just use their own list, assuming that they have such a structure,
rb:wouldn't you want wider dev list rather than be on difft lists
cs:start talimg abiut a single gp, poss of adding more gps later
hc:care to look at MIAME and MGED puts it in place and difft communities are not nec, refering bacj to us, so we should be very inclusve, clear that would like an ontology that has domain specific terms
tw:would it be useful to ask psi onto list, would prefer to work under this umbrella
ct:wanted to change this list to dealing with content proteomics but talk about how we want to encode these.
ss:want to do that with the metabolomics, get the cv and then bring it back
ct:yes same tech there
cs:leaves
rb:leaves
tw:fugo-devel then what's this for?
ct:main dev activity for contruction and dev goes on here
tw:how sep psi mass spec terms from main dev
ct:about not spamming everyone
prs:cv collection is a good way to get the terms and then get the fugo people to do the classes, people would hate to use cv that they don't want
tw:the community card sorting in their own space, can't see reason for not using the fugo-devel list to discuss these
ct:trying to avoid spam
tw:could head things, for targeting e.g. PSI etc
ct:for now do a single dev list, unless people want to use our resources as they don't have their own
tw:yup we can host other lists
ct:should do building through the dev list
hp:removed the sub. issues as thought that these belonged in other places as they were justifications
tw:some boilerplate info would be good
hp:would like to finish on a better note than sub. issues 
prs:need a better title 
ct/tw:TRish will do the first edit, and the CT will edit and send around, sign off next weds.
Norman joins us.
tw:we change collaborative to project and move the collab notion elsewhere,
tw:is a bit wordy
hc:hasn't said what should be used for, sw, annotation
ss:these two should go together, Barry Smith
tw;ontol collaboration development
hp:could do in the other doc as we discussed
prs:should links be in?
prs:wants to add the core groups to the letter
ss:maybe not nec.
tw:could be higher level
ss:could out hyper links in the fugoing doc
tw: that;s part of the addn info at the end as well as well as come join this group
tw:changed 'a goal' or the goal
ct:the primary goal 
hp:agree
ss:did you see ct's comments?
ct:I also had a go at this, sent monday, was much the same points
ss:refering to collaboration part
ct:reads his version
tw:like yr version
hp:where do we go forward, TW will merge CT's and send that back out.
Who this comes from? Should be from us as the group, the coordinating grou[
ct:yes
nm:want to say what is a valuable resource, Helen C's point
hc:yes that is key
hp:could we put a list of everyone's name and affiliations on the site so that the mins are readable
tw:do you want this to be the fugo something, or add everyones names?
ct:fugo coord ctte - or peoples names - so 
TwLIf people on the call want to be excused from coord ctte then we can finalise it later, not all called in today,. not an issue today for the letter
ss:not for the letter, need to finalise who is on what before other people join
tw:may be helpful to split that off
tw:are we agreed that we need fugo coord list
hp:set it up if you like
tw:we all agreed to coord I think so set up the mailing list, and then in that process sort that out
ss:ok do as an action for the next call
tw:wraps up everything, and will send out docs.



















 






    


