OBI Developers Call

Agenda:
-Discuss Wiki page maintenance policy
-Discuss information regarding the minimal metadata terms 

Participants: Liju Fan (LF), Gilberto Fragoso (GF), Trish Whetzel (TW), Daniel
Schober (DS), Bjoern Peters (BP)


GF: A master page directory to help find pages easily

GF: A summary page, comments responding and explanations. how to modify pages,
to maintain better records,

DS: What happens if two people edit the same page at the same time?

TW: The wiki generates a warning message when the second user tries to save their
edits

GF: A set of procedures to not step on each other's toes, suggesting use of email
with wiki pages for compiling the final

TW: Wiki to only maintain ultimate trail, term trackers are good in this sense.
People notified each time a term is edited.

GF: Clarify wiki decisions via email

TW: What would people like to discuss today? Possible, outstanding items are the
deprecation policy, agenda for development items to complete before the workshop,
additional metadata tags added of OBI version 0.4.

All: Review terms that are listed as minimal on the wiki

TW: Those listed do not seem to be what was agreed to at the last call.

BP: Let's review this to finalize the list. I volunteer to create a new page with
the minimal terms.

TW: definition_provenance/definition_alternative, was this a minimal annotation term?

All: definition_provenance is part of definition itself and NCI is working on a
Protege plugin to ease the data entry of these complex values.

TW: suggest to enter this information in using the a delimiter and will generate a
script to convert this to the complex form before committing the file to SVN

All: An official single OBI definition does not need a tag for provenance since it
is known to be from OBI

All: A complex value for OBI "definition" = true definition + contribution source

All: Alt_definition for community-specific only, however, one or maybe two

GF: Community definitions may not be sound, however it is the definition that is
understood by that community for the term, i.e. what they are used to seeing.

All: use synonym, not synonymous_term

RB: remove class_name in front of everything (from last call)

All: preferred_term, instead of preferred_name

TW: editor_notes OK

TW: ontology_import should not be in the minimal list

GF: ontology_import may not be necessary, but if for treeing as a leaf node for
another ontology to start, use scope_note would be better

BP: will merge all comments with definitions and make a new page

GF: scope_note to provide info for end users, no need for design_note as these are
the same thing (NCI uses design_note, but prefer that OBI use scope_note)

GF: each annotation property needs a definition and the annotation property
"definition" can be used itself to hold the definition

GF: ISO definition defines a preferred_term, will send link to the document or
screenshot of this information

DS: ok for rights to not be in the minimum list, but dbxref should be in the minimal
list

LF: There was talk last week whether the annotation terms should exist within OBI
itself or in an external resource. I prefer that they be maintained in OBI. Comments?

TW: These annotations are duplicated in existing resources such as SKOS,Dublin Core,
Administration ontology, etc. however none include the entire set of term to meet
the needs of OBI. Daniel Rubin will be examining the annotation term needs of OBI
and looking into these as a Use Case to drive further development of SKOS. Propose
that for the short-term that OBI include the minimal set of annotation terms within
OBI namespace and in the future, when these needs are met by an existing external
resource, point to that resource for the terms, i.e. change the namespace of these
terms and import that resource into OBI.


