OBI Developers Call - 21Mar2007

Agenda:
-review timeline with triggers in OWL - Alan-discuss remaining metadata annotation implementation issues, see email on File Format for batch loading for questions - All-discuss information on splitting OBI.owl file, which branch gets which subtrees as 'active' - All-discuss implementation ideas for definition_source, see DueCredit wiki page for requirements - All-managing terms proposed by communities with existing resources in production use, e.g. PSI, MGED, what information needs to be maintained by the branch editors - All

Participants: Kevin Clancy (KC), Mervi Heiskanen (MH), Philippe Rocca-Serra (PRS), Gilberto Fragoso (GF), Liju Fan (LF), Bjoern Peters (BP), Chris Stoeckert (CS), Bill Bug (BB)

Excused: Jennifer Fostel, Tina Boussard, Helen Parkinson, Alan Ruttenberg, Allyson Lister

=-=-=-=-=
-discuss remaining metadata annotation implementation issues, see email on File Format for batch loading for questions - All
Consensus:
-curation_status - select list preferred, 1..* cardinality represented as by multiple annotation properties per term
-example - cardinality represented as one property with a list of examples as the value
-editor_note - implement 1..* cardinality as multiple properties


-Discuss information on splitting OBI.owl file, which branch gets which subtrees as 'active' - All
LF - have tested various versions of Protege and ready to go
BP - problem, object_aggregate is needed by BioMaterial and Instrument
LF - propose to create 2 placeholders, one for BioMaterialAggregate terms and one for InstrumentAggregate terms
CS - the names sound ok and address what we want

TW - should we decide now if the proposed 'split' is ok?
BP - go with what is stated now and if needed change later

BP - new BFO version proposed from Barry?
TW - right, this was sent yesterday to a few people, most likely those that have been asking for this information
BP - propose to mimic the proposed structure sent by Barry in OBI 
PRS - send out email from Barry and discuss with group
BP - i think that Barry was trying to get initial feedback, think that it is ok to send out without very critical feedback
TW - so it the plan to send out and temper comments
ACTION ITEM - BP to send to obi-devel list 


-Managing terms proposed by communities with existing resources in production use, e.g. PSI, MGED, what information needs to be maintained by the branch editors - All
TW - not many people here, should this be discussed?
BP - we need to be able to get feedback on terms proposed, there is no obligation to place everything as submitted
CS - agree, best we can is to explain why a term would not be included and provide feedback for further discussion
TW - agree, also stated in the past that the location of the term in the hierarchy is a obi developers group decision so that it best fits the ontological structure of obi
CS - doesn't seem to be a policy issue, but one of communication. report back to community on regular basis and point them to publicly accessible pages to comment on the term placement.
BB - agree, communication and let people know that we want feedback.
CS - problem with communication is that those in the community may not realize that the process is continuing and that their feedback is still needed
GF - seems that an issue that Frank had was with a definition, if OBI is aristotelean and this can be handled by maintaining a different property with a community definition
BP - what kind of definitions are we asking for from a community, if asking for aristotelean then it would not mimic the structure of the resource the term came from and would need to be changed
BB - doesn't make sense if we are not ready to communicate the community
BP - community driven versus structure driven
BB - there are enough of us to construct a proper definition given an initial proposed definition and examples of usage
CS - agree, think that community specific definition is dangerous and examples will allow the community to find their term
BB - agree, 
LF - agree, definition was partial 
TW - think that the combination of example, alt term and education will solve this 
BB - separating the marketing/education the ontology and the actual building 
BP - sounds like complete agreement, what is next step?
BB - think that we need some write-up on this, public?
ACTION ITEM  - TW send write-up of this part of the discussion for eventual posting publicly somewhere


BB - working on doc for exchange of ontology information, would it be ok to send this out?
All - yes
CS - having tools is key to it being useful and accepted


-discuss implementation ideas for definition_source, see DueCredit wiki page for requirements - All
GF - give credit on a per term, what does term refer to?
CS - the concept is my understanding, as based on the definition annotation property
BP, BB, TW - agree

TW -should we review now?
BP - wasn't this already discussed? 
CS - we agreed that it will be some file, but the question is how we track these details
BP - don't need to discuss now
CS - does anyone have a particular tool that they want to use? we should get ideas about existing tools. currently there are two listed.
ACTION ITEM - TW - send write-up for the tool that we are working on
BP - don't care about the specific tool, would be best to have people that work on this get together and find a solution and keep off general call 
CS - sounds reasonable


BP - proposal that each branch makes a state of the branch at developers calls?
BB - is there a policy to ask each branch to have a wiki page
CS - there is a set of responsibilities listed and this is part of what is listed
TW - in favor of proposal
CS - this would be great in places where there are overlapping terms
TW - would you like to present the state of the protocol_application branch?
BP - sure
TW - ok, then we can add to the agenda for next week and then











