Developers Call 21st Jan 2009

Chair: JM
Present: AR, BP, CS, JM, MC, PL, DD, TW

Core Terms http://obi-ontology.org/page/Core_terms

- Biomaterial
-- Environmental matter - discussion with Envo started, they agree about making this defined class with material entity that is an environment.  Need to keep up discussion to sync.
--artifact object - some reasoning issues regarding circular definitions, alan has been working on this 
-DENRIE
--Call tomorrow to discuss measurements and figure
-Role
--Still awaiting definitions, JF working on this
-Plan
--Item 7 - suggestion is to consolidate terms and merge two or more of objective driven process, planned process, and protocol application. Being discussed on call this week.
--Some issues regarding exact difference between study, investigation and study executions which are not clear to all -  
working on these
-DT
--Variable and figure/visualizations are issue as with DENRIE
--Algorithm to be removed from DT definition as not used

-BP to do slide on function status
-FG to do relations (outside of RO)
-FG and MC to do instrument presentation together


Agenda for Workshop

-the item on namespace issue should be resolved before workshop to avoid session on this (Action Item: PRS & SAS)
-Quick ID may be dropped unless considerable work is done before workshop 
-Oliver, Trish and Larissa's sessions on Thursday will be limited to 30 mins each.
-NB Barry is not now attending workshop due to other commitments.




