Daniel, GF, TW, PRS, AR, HP, LF

OBI Dev Call, 28 Feb 2008

More meta data discussion.

What we agreed on last week, plus discussion of Alan's proposal

Philippe, we should ask Alan and Gilberto  for alternate proposals

Philippe, we are building something complex, and worried about it

TW: Agree, Alan was going to demo the version that he was proposing

GF:Don't see eye to eye on this. We decided to create a def property and another def source property. This is simplest mech that we can use, we on;y have 2 def per class.

What Alan is proposing works for sparkle but is not the best way to go to add instances, if we want to reason on these later we can do in a database context.

Alan wants his proposal as he can use existing web tools to query the ontology

to GF this is a secondary use case.

TW:is a semantic web use case primary for development, if we use the string representation then people can do their own conversion for what Alan needs.

HP:can we vote on this?

GF:Alan people are curious about the proposal you sent out

TW:Updates Alan.Initial comments on AR's proposal was that complex and concern whether we should have instances in the ontology, if semantic web use cases are a primary OBI aim.

TW:If people want to take some time to discuss this now? And we may also want to take it back to communities

AR:the instances are generated programmatically so not an issue.

 
PRS:we have agreed on a set of meta data and 2 proposals and we need to understand what's the time line for a programmatic time line

TW:we collect the def source as before, we need to decide if it's a book what parts we are collecting, and Alan has the script.

AR:all we need to do is make the syntax explicit, whether or not we use AR;s script

TW:what is the syntax required could be discussed at this call.

Types of sources and what they need from Alan

1. ISBN:isbnno - book

ISBN (for book, paper pmid)  - get a pp
PMID (for pubmed),pp
DOI (for papers, need to check if there is an overlap with books)
Person (person name as a string, fof URI, date
Mesh:id
Web pages, all need a date
Other[] - something else - intention that we review these and augment this

Alan, is a good idea to have a date, let protege do it?

PRS: so we accept Alan's proposal 
TW:for the format of the string only at this point OK.

PRS:is that compatible with the way that you are working?

GF:we don't enter isbns? We add an author and an edition
We enter ids that we hyperlink so that these are referenceable. - corresponds to URI

Alan:I'll add an option for title, author, edition

BP:The only reason I can see is that;s a nicer id.

GF:ISBNs are required for all books and is OK with this

GF: we should stick with ids. We could also use a comment that one of the fields os not machine readable and could put an editor note, and how that would fit with AR's proposal
AR: comment char hash at the end for this info as well and the instance data could have an editor note field

LF:comment on books, Editors might cite a company or a manufacturers manual menu etc

HP:these are on the web, and everything is in the PDF file.

AA:Alan will return with a proposal on syntax
Delivery date ? Alan will have the specification by next week, All ok with that.

BP:we need to have all these as definition for all the branches?

HP:what about cases where another ontology is the source, is a URI enough. MESH is a sub case of that?

AR:do all have a URI for the ontology - and some id?

So we need to add mandatory meta data at the point of submission of terms

TW:would like tp hear back on curation status tag

GF:when Bill was filling the annotn prop in BIRN did he write down the value sof curation status

AA:all to check our curation_status and report back

TW: they were all defined in an email somewhere

TW:we need defs for the curation status

AA:get defs from Bill, TW will resend a prev email

HP:highlight the relevant part?

TW:definition editor - still on hold, coord need to make progress on that

alternative term tags, is also on hold, I put out my use case, there are other uses

GF:the alt term had a no of fields, and were collapsed into Alt term tag, was overloaded, hard to interpret if overloaded

Discussion on tags

TW: I don't think we made a decision here, but U agree that term tag is overloaded

AR: that was a decision in the workshop, from BB  we wanted to sort on a tag, so we decided not to be too rigid about it

TW:you don't have an issue with it being overloaded?

AR:I was following workshop def if we do care, there's room to have classes of tags, string would look the same

PRS:we reviewed AR's proposal. All info will be in the OWL file classes and inttances, does this impact how we can serve this from e.g. an OLS and how heavy this is? OBI is serving OBO files and doesn't care about all this. Is there another effort that is storing this info? 

AR:early on OWL front for these things - OWL verisons of Go will need to make adjustments. 

DS:when we add all these things hard to cope with, NCBIO plan to use tools that are simpler. we are using adv features. I don't have a solution for meta data.

TW:once we get syntax proposal these are the kind of questions that we need to go back to communities - e.g. look up services and editing tools etc

TW: splitting OWL file. LF volunteered for that

LF:working on Protege - removed that feature in 370 and will do it
TW:date?

AA:LF to split the file in 2 weeks 14 March 2007

AR: might want to with a script, will talk to LF if does this sooner with a script

LF:instructions on where to split?

TW:todays the day to vote on branches, is to give the branch gps an active branch based on the wiki page. Check that is OK.


















 























