OBI developers call Jan 16, 2008
Attending: Chris S., Liju F., Bjoern P., Daniel S., James M., Melanie C., Jennifer F., Philippe R-S., Ryan B., Bill B.

1. OBI presentation at PAG. Bjoern presented on behalf of OBI. Response was limited as the attendees are annotators and curators and not really interested in ontology development. There is interest in using OBI (generating interest was the point of the talk) but we need to get a release out. A couple requests were made for a tool to generate a database schema from OBI.

2. Quality branch and PATO. Melanie pointed out that while the wiki page for the Quality branch indicates that terms will be managed by PATO, there is currently a set of terms listed under "quality" such as "frozen state" that are separate from the PATO quality class.  Resolution is that all terms should be submitted to PATO by the appropriate branch through the PATO tracker and followed up  with email on the PATO list. The Biomaterial branch will look at the current terms under "quality", check them and others they have to submit against PATO, and submit as needed. Will also check against mappings at  http://obofoundry.org/wiki/index.php/Mappings.
The Biomaterial branch has also discussed importation of selected terms from PATO and the mechanism discussed will be forwarded to the OBI-developers list (by Melanie).

3. Resolution of protracted discussions. This topic was also discussed at the coordinators call last week and will be brought up for discussion at the upcoming workshop. So far the consensus is that when possible issues should be discussed within branches as appropriate to seek resolution (if additional help is needed it will be provided from volunteers from other branches), and if there is no consensus when bringing out to the main group the OBI advisors could be consulted. For issues that are addressable through voting, a wiki vote page will be set up as was done for space versus underscore (ranked votes as opposed to yes/no can be used as needed). The resolution of the discussion (and vote) needs to be documented in the appropriate section of the wiki to avoid repeating what has been discussed at lenght already.
 
4. Definition source versus citation. Arguments by the main proponents of each side (Daniel and Alan) will be posted on the wiki. If consensus can be reached between the two, then the outcome will be accepted by the group at large. If not, then a vote will be taken  as was done for space v. underscore.

5. Annotation property indicating branch assignment of term. Question is whether to maintain and populate a branch name as a term annotation property. Resolution is not to provide this because it was simply a development aid and not meant to be a mechanism for modularizing OBI at this stage. It is recognized that use of annotation property to check out selected components of OBI is valuable and may be used in future although not necessarily according to branch. It was noted that the use of ID range for branches has not been enforced and does not present an alternative method. Melanie will post the decision on the metadata page.

6. Use of suffix or postfix for identifying terms as under a major class. Specifically, should _role be added every term that is under "role"? Resolution is no that _role (or any other suffix) can be used to make the term unambiguous but should not be used when redundant. There may be further discussion as to when adding role is redundant or needed for clarification. Daniel will post the decision on the wiki in consultation with Frank Gibson.
