
I/ Discuss implementation policy for votes that have been accepted on
the 20th.

1. curation_status: new values - cardinality

Discussion about keeping underscores.
Curation_status is for computational treatment, needed if they are URIs
DECISION: we keep the underscores for now, if there is a problem later
on we'll discuss it at this point.
Bjoern adds that the implementation of the previous curation_status
values has been branch -dependent (e.g. protocol_application used them
in a specific way), and the branch should be charged to update their
file.

AI: Bill will update the AnnotationProperty file by tomorrow (28/02/2008
- thanks Bill considering the short deadline). He will send an email to
obi-devel when the change is done.
AI: branch leaders will ensure their file is updated accordingly.



2. definition_source: update of the annotation property file and all the
branch files

AI: Daniel will liaise with Alan to ensure all relevant changes are
made: wiki, OWL files and Alan's web pages. DL: 12th March

II/ Discuss release policy

1. Files have to be checked when committing into SVN
2. Various pre-releases check, Release Day(D)-8, D-3
3. email on dev if problems: the branches have to check/correct their
respective files
4. If inconsistency/problem -> no release.

DECISION: editors of the files have to ensure that their file is
consistent.
AI: Melanie and BIll to write a simple tutorial on how to check the
consistency of your file with Pellet.DL:5th March

AI: Melanie, Bill and Alan are currently writing the doc for the release
policy. Melanie will send the draft to obi-dev today (27/02/2008). Note:
early draft just to globally fix ideas, not to be considered at all as
something final.

AI: Editors check their files before committing to SVN

III/ Discussion regarding imports

see thread at
http://groups.google.com/group/obi-developer/browse_thread/thread/db6a0e
da94fb62ed/c5c47d12377e36cd?hl=en#c5c47d12377e36cd.

AI: Ongoing discussion on the obi-dev list.
Alan will clarify issues and Melanie will add the summary to the
documentation.

IV/ Branch reviews

It had been previously agreed that members of OBI would review other
branches.
Review here means :
1. check terms belong to the branch
2. check hierarchy
3. check definitions -> clear to understand

If you have time to evaluate against use cases, please do so.

People volunteered, DL is next week, 5th of March:
Biomaterial: Jennifer
Plan: Jennifer (will try)
Data transformation: Philippe and Chris S
DENRIE: James and Philippe

Bjoern also suggest that branch leaders do a reverse review of their
branches, i.e. each branch should check that non-branch terms they need
are there.

AI for all: reverse review of branches.

V/ manuscripts and authorship

This issue has been raised again, and will be dealt with during the next
coordinators call.

AI: Chris to write down a publication policy after the coordinator call.

