
1. Outstanding action items
 AI for all - go through list of oustdanding AI from workshop, update as
done,  DL 2 weeks

2. Small issues with owl files
Liju Fan: rdfs:label mysteriously missing in obi.owl file
might be a protege bug, but we never saw it before - keep on eye on that,
if re happens contact protege with bug report.
MC will correct today.
note for all: be careful when committing file - try and check them

3. Deprecation policy
 AI for JM, MC (with AR and BB): write deprecation policy to submit to
obi-dev

4. Function
 Liju: what will happen with function? (and has_function)
AI for Bill: clarify how to use function, DL 2 weeks

5. Format of definition_source
https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/Definition_source
e.g. PERSON: Bjoern,  URL: wikipedia
 BP: leave the choice to curator
 AI for Alan: clarify what will be the use of this format, BP proposes to
leave choice to curator to use or not
to be re discussed in 2 weeks for final decision

6. mailing-lists: plan and txcommit retirement
 AI MC send an email to dev and coord - lists to be retired

7. current discussions
AI for Bjoern - conclusion to organization discussion

Note: there was a discussion about the ability of people attending the dev
call to make decisions (e.g, deprecate unused mail lists, reorganize svn,
and other technical development issues) when only a few developers are
present. We all agreed that we don't want to spend development calls
discussing policy issues, and anything that requires a vote probably
should be taken up by the coordinating committee.  The notes from the call
are posted on the list after each call for all to review and comment
including any decisions made so that those not able to attend have an
opportunity to challenge and reverse the decisions.


