OBI Developers Call - 28Feb2007

Agenda: 
*Finalize implementation of WorkshopMetadata in OWL
--Review OWL representation of definition_source information as classes and instances - demo OWL file needed
* Discuss plans to split OBI file into 'branches'
* Present working implementation of timeline with triggers in OWL - Alan
* Coordination of term submission for each branch so that it is uniform

Participants: Trish Whetzel (TW), Gilberto Fragoso (GF), Jennifer Fostel (JF), Philippe Rocca-Serra (PRS), Bjoern Peters (BP), Daniel Schober (DS), Liju Fan (LF), Helen Parkinson (HP), Alan Ruttenberg (AR)

* Coordination of term submission for each branch so that it is uniform
TW - collapse curation_status tag and possible parent into 1 column. is this how people want to represent this?
TW - collection of terms, tab-delimited?
BP - is anyone else interested
No response. Will not discuss at the call

*Finalize implementation of WorkshopMetadata in OWL
--Review OWL representation of definition_source information as classes and instances - see OWL files sent via obi-devel list from Alan (email titled 
PRS - this looks very complicated. would need to get comments 
TW - clarify what was discussed last week. at a minimum we would represent definition source as a string value for a datatype annotation property called definition_source. the proposal by Alan was a possible additional representation of this information (both would exist in the file) and the motivation for this second representation is so that the information is more accessible to tools used for semantic web such as SPARQL
GF - i thought that we decided to create a definition property and a definition_source property that would hold the information for the source. this might be the way that works for SPARQL, but it is not the best way to construct a terminology since it should not have instances. eventually we would want to reason over the ontology with instances (knowledgebase) and if we use the mechanism proposed by Alan then it is not clear how this would work since there would be 2 type of questions.
TW - yes, suggested that if building OBI to meet these semantic web issues is of prime importance that we state that as a goal of OBI and have the Coordinators agree. so far the (main) purpose of OBI is for annotation of experiments. of course it can be used for many other things, but this is the only task that we have agreed to be building OBI for.
HP - can we vote on this?
TW - catch-up Alan on what discussed earlier in the call
PRS - we agreed on a set of metadata that we should be using, how does this 
AR - we just need to make sure that the syntax is agreed on for how this is represented in the string

HP - second the proposal to agree to syntax
TW- sounds good

AR - Proposed representations:
-ISBN:someNumber (book)
-web page - book/webPage/article:date()
-PMID
-MeSH term

LF - sometimes an article is made into a book chapter
AR - maybe that should be captured
TW - is it important to capture the 
AR - do people want the page number for books
HP - we cite page numbers for books, would prefer to have page numbers and not a separate part for 
AR - add pp. to ISBN and to PMID and MeSH
AR - what do people use for MeSH terms?
LF - there are identifiers for the terms
AR - person, person name as a string, foaf uri, date
TW - good to have date for ~all sources so that definitions could be reviewed for current accuracy at a later
AR - seems like something that Protege could do, either strip

AR - other 
HP - maybe an Action Item could be for AR to send the syntax for the string representation of the string
AR + all - agree
AR - ideally, these would not be strings but uri's if they agree
PRS - is this compatible with what you are working on
GF - we don't enter ISBN
AR - would have the title and the author
GF - not very thorough, but for this reference it works and the hyperlink is dereferencable
AR - add option for title and author
BP - can this be converted? if you enter the ISBN then it can be converted?
AR - are there any books that don't have ISBN
GF - no, we have to stick with identifiers. it is easier for a person to read the author and title though. maybe there can be a comment that includes the author and title information? also need to see how this would impact instance data.
AR - add in as a comment with # and then the instance would have a editor_note attached to it.
LF - what about company definition where there are versions of this information?
HP - most of these are on the web these days
LF - if they are on the web and then download the pdf
HP - the pdf is a specific a document that is on the web, so that if it has a URL it is ok
AR - Action Item - syntax due next week for call
HP - many of the terms that are being proposed for the biomaterial branch
AR - I'll uri for an ontology reference. then MeSH becomes a subcase of this.
BP - is this same for the genbank?
AR - will all ontology sources have a uri?
PRS - no
AR - then there will be 2 cases


* Discuss plans to split OBI file into 'branches'
TW - are you still volunteering for this?
LF - yes, have been practicing and will use older version of Protege to do this. 
AR - this is a pain with the current version
LF - how about 2 weeks as a timeline? March 14, 2007
AR - will also play around with this as needed for another project
LF - how should these be split?
TW - use the info on the ObiBranches


* Summary of metadata tags (http://tinyurl.com/22tfpv) where there is an agreed implementation:
-preferred_term	- implement as a Datatype annotation property, FunctionalProperty
-definition - implement as a Datatype annotation property, FunctionalProperty
-definition_source - implement as a Datatype annotation property. The format for the various types of resources still needs to be determined.
-example - implement as a Datatype annotation property
-editor_note - implement as a Datatype annotation property
-external_class - implement as a Datatype annotation property

Additional tags to vote on implementation
-curation_status
Action Item - TW - re-send out the definitions of the various values for curation_status tags.

-definition_editor - on hold until Coordinators decide what needs to be captured

-alternative_term
-alternative_term_tag
-alternative_term_source
GF - initially these had various sources and in San Diego it was collapsed and became overloaded. favor the elimination of tag as a property name. alt_term_source works for me. can use alt_term_community?

AR - the instance proposal still allows the string and the instances to co-exist. 
TW - 
AR - this was from Bill Bug's suggestion when it seemed like it was getting too difficult 
TW- does the instance proposal have a problem with this being overloaded
AR - it follows the workshop proposal and can be defined computationally and could post-hoc classify these tags

PRS - if we store all this information, where the definition came from - classes, instances, does this impact the way that we can serve data from ontology look-up services?

AR - hard to know without knowing what the look-up service is using. 
PRS - are you aware of any other services that are using OWL on representing this information
DS - when we start implementing more fancy representations then it might be hard for existing tools to work with OBI, e.g. Prompt tool of Protege/OWL.
TW - these are exactly the questions that need to be asked from the Coordinators to the communities they are representing. perhaps community should be taken in a bit broader sense here to mean user groups, i.e. those that will be using OBI in order to account for things like look-up services etc.



