OBI-developers call: Sept. 26, 2007.
Attending: Chris S., Bjoern P., Ryan B., Bill B., Jennifer F., Kevin C., Alan R., James M., Tina B., Daniel S. 

1. Winter workshop. Ryan is ready to finalize logistics for the workshop to take place Jan. 28 to Feb.1 in Vancouver. He will send out a final notice for people to argue for another date before booking hotels etc. and fixing those dates.
2. PAG abstract. Bjoern is ready to submit the abstract (circulated to coordinators) on Friday.
3. OBI-developers Google group. Alan has made an archive in Google Groups for the obi-developers mail list that is searchable.
4. OBI use cases for representation and competency question. James has extended the deadline and is still soliciting use cases for what OBI needs to represent. Given that there are many ways to represent things, competency questions (i.e., how the OBI representation will be used) are needed to guide which representation to go with. James will post on the Wiki what he and Daniel have collected so far. 
5. Relations branch report. Alan provided a status report:
- Have gone through the list of relations submitted to them. Have submitted some to the Relation Ontology. Have added manufacturer_of to OBI. Have sent some terms to the Role branch.
- Waiting on resolution of the object hierarchy to address some relations such as those involving serial and lot numbers.
- Want other Branches to let the Relations Branch know what are needed relationships holding up their work.
- Handling time in OWL is still an unsolved problem (although there are active efforts on this) making certain representations impossible. This impacts relations in support of roles. For example, can't write an OWL axiom currently that says your a member of one class (input role) until time t and then later you are no longer a member of that class and are a member of another class (output role). Note that this representational issue may be avoided depending on what (competency) questions are needed of OBI.
- Action Item for Alan: post a Wiki page summarizing time issues and discussion
6. Naming conventions. Daniel has put together a proposal tot he OBO Foundry for naming conventions that has been applied to the Instrument branch, presented at ISMB, and will be submitted for publication. He will send to each branch a list of these conventions and the branch will either agree to follow them or bring to general discussion an problems with them. The conventions are based on current OBI practices and have largely been discussed already so no issues are anticipated.

Nest weeks call will be using Centra. Please contact Gilberto if you have any questions.