OBI call Aug 22

in attendance: Kevin Clancy, Gilberto Fragoso, Helen Parkinson, Daniel Schober, Liju Fan,
Frank Gibson, Bill Bug, Bjoern Peters
Minutes: Jen

naming convention survey - Daniel sent out proposed answers based on OBI OWL file
need people to give feedback by sept 6
Liju: prefer excel spreadsheet to collect comments
Helen: try survey monkey?  DS: they are looking for qualitative not quantitiative responses

object top level from Frank and Matt
checked in with changes in response to comments from last week
DS - improved!
issue of "portion" removed

approval process to put into OBI?
instrument branch approves;
biomaterial branch needs to take a look; DS will follow up with SAS

moved into Centra to go over the file
BB: which things belong in BFO?
LF: countable is an adjective; change to countable_object or move up to object
DS: growth medium should be in heterogenous portion;
FG: the resoner put it where it was
FG: anticipate more siblings of collective
LF: where does a population of two people go?
FG: collective can have parts which are countable objects

FG: will re-send link to video and solicitation for comments / issues by wednesday Aug 29.

progress on milestone of sending terms to branches?
several branches are still working on finalizing
HP: will take a look at the plan terms sent to protocol applications, and see if there's anything better.
LF:for people sending new terms please send terms to relations.
BP:we had terms for lots of branches and will send these out
DS:Frank I see some part of relations in OWL file, will these go to relns.

evaluation due sept 15th
Helen will send a reminder
