OBI Dev Call 23 May 2007
-----------
Ryan, Helen P, Trish, Liju, James, Gilberto, Norman, Bjoern, Daniel, Alan, Bill Bug, Philippe

Agenda:

   * Branch wiki pages - James
   *

     Term Provenance - Trish
         o Motivation is to provide a method to filter terms for use in annotation applications.


HP: is there a summary from last week?
TW: No.
HP: is there an update from CTO
TW: JF is travelling, Richard not sure.

AA:follow up on CTO report for next call, or via email. - TW

Last weeks action item. SOP for importing OBI, Bjoern not being able to easilty import into OBI. Following Liju's protocol. Was tio put something on the wiki. Alan was looking at it.

LF:aware of some import bugs, need to restart protege to do that. Still already have same problem even when restarting, will contact Protege again about that.

TW:Can you contact protege OWL list

AA: for Liju to contact the protege list and the obi dev list with a description of the problem and version nos etc.

AR:this is becoming a problem. Susie is a co-PI on protege. Can she give them a nudge?

CS:Mark Musen is our advisor and he does also monitor on coord lisr

LF:might be better with Prompt, not yet tried that.

TW:we don't know what people are trying. Bjoern was going to describe the exact problem.

AA:BP to describe problem he was having with import on the wiki page and forward to LF and add to the wiki.

AA:AR to comment on what was sent by Bjoern to him on problems

BP:need to fix also some trivial things in the file as well.

Last week - Bill gave us a summary of the function branch, no follow up needed oday.


Term provenance:

LF;wants to add a relations branch, only had one conf call. Discussion on instraument call about relations between other branches. Like to ask branches to send relns to the relations branch rather than other branches.

BP:Though that reln page was present on the wiki. We agree that it is there and hard to find. Is after OBI branch dev sections is a bullet point list of relns. BP has submitted terms from ProtocolApplication branch and relate e.g. to Instrument.


This weeks Agenda items:

Wiki pages:

JM:Outsider perspective. Hard to navigate, wiki-creep, Home page is a huge index page, things not grouped, related things not grouped optimally. Coming in to find the terms for all branches hard to find. Set up a table that has a link to all tables for all branches so that we can do cross branch review. These are the main things. Happy to try and work on this, want to collaboratively.

AR:Agree, esp. if volunteering I would be happy to do that.

General agreement

TW:one concern - sep link per branch to term files, might be problematic, link in two places. Might be better to use TOC plugin on each branch page and improve the branches.

JM:can see that, we updated plan for e.g. and had to update the plan. So this has to be done, or we organise all the pages the same.

BB:we talked about a template page.

JM:has already started editing the plan branch. Looking for scope for each branc, surprised not to find that.

AA:James will develop the template and provide an example for plan for others

LF:Question about branch relationships. Reln branch is very different for e.g. Should be treated differently. Should we add to the OBI branches list?

JM:hard one, consider something sep, experience of content first then reln later
CS:We are getting hung up on legacy, clearly we have a branch for reln, should ake a page for this.

BB:Agree with Chris. The nature of the work to date has been about collecting terms, because of that lots of high level descr, of scope at lot is at the meeting and is not on the pages. So focus has been on terms and not scope.

JM:One thing also imp. is that term collection between branches has overlap, and therefore scope is useful.

BB:has been part of branch development. We make it explicit on the function pags
JM:scope might help inter branch discussion, if we have scope statements then we might ease that process

AR:scope is not the issue, still grappling with how they relate as are difft aspects of the same thing. Scope is well delimited by the root note in OBI.

BB:You described an operational process, people coming in will be unfamiliar. For those working on it it's hard and what James is asking for is about that.

AR:People need to understand BFO first. Differences in scope are not of the usual sort

JM:I can see that - general thinking if someone uses the ontology do they need to know BFO.

BB:AR is correct, as new people come in to participate we are going over the same issues, BFO is problematic unless you are a philosopher. We have process and foundational understanding. We need to get people up to speed quickly and improve that.

HP:scope, example, use cases etc are all needed and we have added those to plan and the def of the top node from BFO.

AR:could James also send out specifics about what's confusing and unclear

TW:will also be comments from CTO on that

BB:comment on ToC plugin on agendas and minutes helps, recommend that on template structure.

AR:suggest that talk to the advisors about bugs.

LF:poss not a useful approacj

AR:long standing bug

TW:we don't know what the problem is

BB:we can do that first

CS/AR//;we should mail advisors if we don't get help, AA for next week.

BB:suggest also cc to Daniel Rubin.

BB:LF can you send to the dev list first

BP:already agreed to do a wiki

DS:cc to Nick Drummond in future

- We agreed to do the wiki, and then mail protege list and then mail Mark via Advisors if needed.

Next agenda item: Term provenance

Trish, if I have an annotation application e.g. instrument, want to filter out terms that are common and see only microarray for e.g.

AR:should do that via a query on the ontology

TW:based on what

AR:we will have formal defs of which types of protocols are used in microarraysBP:understood more general, may be domain specific synonyms
TW:on a node by node basis, not related to synonyms
AR:want to know what 'x' is used in a microarray expt
AR:Several ways in ontology - mention in a protocol, function term do we need some extra-ontology mechanism to do that.

BB:have a hard time understanding this. User may not be asking questions what's on microarray instruments.

AR:seems reasonable to me.

BB:most typical use case - some protocol used to acquire data.

PRS:can we do this via ids - or source or person curating the data.

TW:the terms belong to multiple communities

AR:Also a bad idea to use things outside the ontology. OBI should be able to this inside the ontology.

TW:Slides on centra

LF:we could use annotation properties.

AR:that should be computable from primary representation

TW:proposal was similar to what Liju said, if there are other suggestions then we could discuss that. Two issues, for showing in applications and curation activity

BB:this is like a GO slim yes? Can be done in PATO for e.g. used by GMOD. Should be in the ontology itself. There's an R01 from U.W FMA to show views in OWL.

AR:also work in the DL - partitioning alg. inside Pellet. I wanted to clarify, inside - annotation properties are used for thing can't be reasoned over. Consider synonyms outside - arbitrary - no basis in reality for use of a synonym, but an intrument is key to OBI, therefore would not use an annotation props. Sugges therefore do as a query vs. an ontology

BB:Problem is the distinction between cttee and the branches - terms will be subdivided in the ontology not clear that these are in the ontology

AR:These should be collected as use cases and consider that in the representation. GO slims can be error prone, and we could avoid these if we have another implementation

BB:what we need and what NCBO needs to do is a system for having an ontology bring together components specify for a set of instruments for e.g. - e.g.microarray ones.

AR:need clarity on view - is the view another ontology?

HP:suggest we go with the use cases and follow up off line
