FuGO Conference Call - 101905
                                            
Participants: Helen C, Helen P, Norman, Ryan, Joe W, Chris S, Chris T.     
Two formatting issues on the FuGOing forwards doc, space in footnotes, and indentation in point 4.                                                                                      
AA CHRIS T TO FIX THESE                                                                       
AA TRISH WILL POST THESE                                                                      
Trish is working on the FuGO site and will add this.                                              
TW: Time for admin meeting, think we are done with this for now. Proposes that set a time next month for a call to discuss admin/coord thing, or do things by email.            
Joe and Chris S, Chris T join.                                                         
TW we could on from this one, add an extra hour or earlier, or replace the weekly meeting with the coordinator meeting on the 2nd.                                                      
                 
HP:once a month becomes the coord meeting call                                                
AA: NEED A LIST OF THE DATES ON THE SF SITE                                        
TW:updates the people who just joined on the doc  
CT:tells us about the term collecting in the proteomics community, now collecting terms will reverse this later as terms come into FuGO. Has some file formating problems with vocab in OBO. Two sub projects gel and gel informatics, and sample prep, tagging samples. spinning, columns etc  - prepML, doing term collection as we go.                           
Metabolimics is confused wrt to the formats, their website is up, ok in IE, announces the work groups, two ontologies and data formats relevant. Use case modelling will provide some terms, should go via Susanna.                                                            
RB:getting a doc to share by december                                                         
TW:ask CT, collecting CV in OBO format?                                                       
CT:not clear what format, using OBO as lighweight etc                           
TW@ concern. 1. develop fugo in OWL and PSI has vendors using IBO etc, if fugo is OWL will some terms be in OWL and some in OBO?                                                         
CT:if we want people to read it then something simple is needed, were asked to do it in       
OBO - just transformed the file, still not settled, prefer OWL                                
TW:din't see why not use OWL now?                                                             
CT:could be, not had that discussion yet, people want to do forms etc and use these, rather than reason                                                                                   
TW:would be interested in following up, is this an MS list                                    
CT:crosses over, discussions will be on PSI-Ontodev         
Will be in OWL, stucture will be in there, will be a cv not an ontology. Will make a mapping for the schema                                                                        
TW:has put the ms into an owl file already, is possible                                        
TW:MO evaluation, taking look at the MO, look for terms that will be shared and are microarray specific, HP, LF, GF, JW, TW working on this.                                      
HP:summarises the expt design terms                                                           
TW:looking at the biomaterial terms for discussion, these will all be reviewed at the next meeting.                 
                                                                             AA MO WORKING GROUP WILL POST TO THE MO LIST SO THAT OTHERS CAN COMMENT                       
HC:when HP looked at the terms what do mean by refining the terms?          
HP:some are array centric, and maybe don't need to be, also some are array based technology only 
TW:terms that are microarray specific, trying to improve the definitions so that they can tbe assessed by FuGO after refs to the OM etc are removed.                                           
Ontology development                                                                          
TW:Mechanism for building FuGO, on calls and at MGED two basic models proposed, unified and modular dev approach. U method, everyones terms live in one file and we indicate which terms spec to a domain, M method, FuGO contains the high level classes and there is a mapping to that from other domain's ontologies.                                               
Anyone want to suggest anything else?                                                      
CT:If you download something called fugo, the idea that you get many files is a complicating factor, so I wonder if worth it's to work that way. And point was made by MA that is hard to do that
           
CS:Agree, but in some sense we do that when we refer to tax terms, we refer out to external ontologies. My guess is that we will still need to do that for some resources. If we go to the modular approach we could treat them uniformly.                       
We should also be thinking about pulling in external ontologies into FuGO if we look at the benefits we also need to consider these.                                    
YW:good point see the similarity, one diff tho is that these are discrete and arthologous rather than the domain ontologies, which are less likely to be so.                            
Many more places where provide mapping from domain to the FuGO ontologies, rather than the discrete mappings to the external ontologies as before                                 
CS:eg.s Units, sequence ontology, we had these terms in the MO and then we started refering out                                                                                  
TW:still see as discrete though, if there's a unit ontology then we will still have the same problem                                                                                  
NM:endorsement, are we endorsing these ontologies, with taxonomy, best thing, but some people don't use it.                                                                    
cs:we are endoring to an extent, not exclusive, could add other tax, could develop criteria for this, freely available and open.                                                 
hc:how do we make sure that the structure is consistent across domains               
cs:we don't address that now, for those kinds of the ontologies e.g. so  - different category than anatomy as they are not telling just where we got the term, there we say that these things have meaning in our structure.                                   
hp:argue that so is different from the unit - as we don't use it in constructs such as test                                                                                    
tw:how are we assigning meaning to unit?           
cs:if we follow what did for MO classes use units, defined in specific way, we are constrained in unit instances, as they are used in classes. Not as cut and dried but we will need to decide how we interact with these general other ontologies       
HP:agree some of the units thing was down to MO and as it was also no external ontology and we ended up with a mixed model, we should develop a common approach 
    
TW:should we set up some use cases for the unified and mod development to test these. Put the approaches through a trial.                                                               
CS:since RSBI have use cases could they identify one or two of these                   
CT:could get a use case for text mining, they wanted to get the ontology to do text mining.                                                                             
HC:yes good idea.                 
cs:primary use cases should be for annotation, though                              
tw:looking at modelling and how the use cases would be, where is the division, what are the ways that it maps, how do in a modular way, what are the maintenance constraints, how would it traverse the model.                                                 
hp:we need a list of these, plus the cost benefit analysis, RSBI people have done some of this.                                                       
ct:want to make sure that those with no ontology expertise etc could still do something and get a mechanism to get it back that's open and assists them              
AA get use case from RSBI group                                              
CS:update on FuGO adv board, acceptance Frank and Barry Smith, Barry signed up for the fugo coord list, Norm please ask Steve and Robert get a formal reply.       
HP:Status of the MO paper, Nat Biotech? 
CS:submitted online, got emails back, haven't heard anything                 AA CS will check status                 
AA TW:doing a bit more editing on the MO paper, will do by end week and will send back out    
TW:surface type, has unknown, is not ontologically good                
HC:agree with HP that can leave it in, know not good, but is pragmatic  
