OBI developers call Sept. 19, 2007.
Attending: Chris S., Bill B., Bjoern P., Kevin C., Alan R., Jennifer F.

1. Presentation at PAG meeting. Good opportunity for us and thanks to Bjoern for offering to present on our behalf. Bjoern will prepare an abstract (Oct. 1 deadline) and circulate.
2. Alternative systems for teleconferencing. Gilberto, Ryan, and Chris tried out the voice component of Centra and got it working reasonably well. Will try to use for a general call (Oct 3?) and see how it goes. Note that is requires participants to be on Centra (i.e., not call in from wherever on their cell phone). Alan has also looked into alternative. Being an "incubator" group or XG for the W3C would give us free access to their teleconferencing. Requires 3 W3C members - have identified 2 and looking for one more. 
3. Status of object hierarchy. The discussion of the object hierarchy (AKA instrument/ biomaterial) that Frank and Matt presented on during prior developers calls has actively continued involving BFO (Pierre). Prototypes have been proposed by Alan and Bjoern. Asked for a summary of where things stand for the Oct. 3 call. 
4. Defined classes. Alan has written up a policy on defined classes (described in recent email thread) with feedback that definitions and general principles are OK after some editing. The remaining issue is where to put the classes with options including a separate file, directly into OBI and let the reasoner infer location, and a special class under "thing" for each branch (i.e., a junk class) to store these. Alan will send out a resolution to create a special classes for each branch for acceptance or discussion. The goal is to avoid adding additional barriers to editors such as trying to find their classes in Protege.
5. Importing terms into OBI. Programmatic imports are still problematic. Short term solution is to contact Alan and have him adjust his code to do the imports. Longer term, Bill has code to import that also handles relations and updates and will clean up and check in to svn pending OK from projects that it was built for.

Next call: Branch reports. Where do we stand? Any volunteers?
