FuGO Conference Call - 102605
--------------------                                         
Susanna, Philippe, Trish, Helen P, Mervi, Chris T, Helen C, Liju F, PRS                            
TW:want to test the use cases and the two proposed ontology development methods. Norman  was the only person last week that was an advocate of the independent method (IM) vs the unified method (UM). Want to have these equally tested                                        
MH:can you explain the difference                                                             
TW:Unified, all terms, high level and domain specific in one ontology, vs independent where domain specific terms are managed separately by their communities.                      
MH:are u in favour of independent                                                             
TW:no, communities should do their card sorting, but should bring stuff back in a formal way within a single ontology structure.                                                       
CT:Like the idea of unified, even if a domain can do their own would still need a validation process before inclusion and in many cases will not be able to do this initially. Better to do a term collection by community and pass along. Their need is driven by some use cases, e/g looking at the schema not the abstract structure                
CS:we seem to be in agreement, we wanted to see if we could come up with a case for independent method, is this still appropriate to do the evaulation? Go with unified, but keep in mind other poss, or we could just move on.                                            
TW:wanted to make sure that all had a chance to comment, as were not all on call last week.                                                                                         
TW:if a community need a franchise of fugo, could copy and paste the ontology and add to it, we could be able to cope with this                                                        
CS:go with unified then?                                                          
SS:should we ask the adv board                                                                
TW:yes, we need to do the work and ask them, wanted to have something.                        
SS:are you saying that you want to do both?                                                   
TW:seems that most people want to go unified, so we can pass that to the board.               
SS:better to produce something to show them?                                                  
TW:deps what people want to do?                                                               
HC:we should provide examples, if is too abstract                                             
TW:yes                                                                                        
We take a look at the use cases, we need things from other domains     

HC:what are the challenges in the approach that we've chosen and pick use cases for that       
CS:use cases should cross two technologies, use cases should have domain specific terms for investigation description`                                                                
PRS:phases is needed for toxicology for e.g.                                                  
SS:use case 2 is the most complex                                                             
CS:like idea of a complex one, simple ones are also good, so we don't get caught up in the most complex only                                                                             
SS:agree, nutrigenomics one is simple, tox one is more complex                                
hc:need to say what are principles are, ie why solved the way we have, in terms of adv board, good to show e.g. and explain what guiding principles are, will b easier to get a sensible comment back.                                                                        
tw:as far as maintenance of the ontology, use and applications                                
hp:did we have these at mged,                                                                 
TW:yes and also last week we discussed that                                                   
CT:sociological and technical are separate                                                    
YW:yes we had that                                                                            
SS:did you report the fugo to psi?                                                            
CT:yes sent the going forwards doc, not promoted all that much,                               
SS:want to do the same for the sociological aspect for the metabol.                           
CT:most people are schema based, happy for something else to be done, no oppositon as a way forward                                                                                   
CS:think that metabol, and proteomics are not hard, no set of ontology building in progress, harder for plants (RiB) etc where they already have something                       
SS:agree, but in metabolimics that already have something                                     
CS:plant people want the workshop and they will get involved then, perhaps they are waiting for something that we can compare.                                                    
CT:SF meeting for PSI - case for having a meeting, start of April as a                        
HP: follow up to the first one.                                                               
TW:we had mentioned jan/feb, are we ok for feb now?                                           
SS:metabolomics soc has a meeting in boston in June                                           
TW:we will get a date via the coordination list                                               
TW:talking re tracking new terms fr Fugo sociological and technolgical issues                 
CS:do we use one tracker on sf - 
HP:we can upload files,                                                                       
TW:what's the mechanism for approval? how do people decide on their terms for their domains?                                                                                      
CT:they own them up to a point, they need to supply their defs etc and get things to us, need people to own some of the terms                                                          
CT:can't have general submission,                                                             
TW:they take the first crack at approving them                                                
HP:happens quite naturally in the GO world, need good community representatives               
CS:we need a single copy of the owl file. raises a point that is this the model that we want to follow, do we allow branches? Easier to have one copy to check in and out             
CT:having one official version is better                                                      
CS:if we have branches is a transition to independent developmeny                             
SS:might we worth asking RiB about versioning control                                         
LF:some exp with protege, we had probs resolving the diffs between 2 versions, can take o/n would prefer to keep a master copy, and if any changed copies then list major changes and add editor notes.                                                                          
SS:RiB has a student trying to improve the versioning?                                        
GF:could we use a multi user version of protege?                                        
TW:We discussed that in microarray work and LF said that they had bad experiences      
LF:we had people on different areas and we were sharing owl file, we were using oracle db backend, got corrupted and also got wrong info, lost info. Always good to keep an OWL file.                                                                                         
HP:would LiJu write a best practice doc for us and others, explaining this               
AA LF to do a short best practice doc on using Protege and pitfalls of multi user env/oracle back end.                                                                          
TW:getting close to the end of the time, are we going to tackle use case 1 and 2. Need a simple one and a complex one. As a start, we can read through these eand id the concepts, and generate the relationships.                                                               
SS:would it help if I posted the CMAP use cases, may be too abstract                          
HP:yes useful                                                                                 
CT:also had a simple set of top level classes, from MGED? We could look at these as well.     
CS:If we have something then send it to Trish                                                 
AA:All to send use cases, CMAPs etc to Trish and she will post them.                          
CT:other stuff that we can draw in FUGE - is a null case        
TW:we also need to be able to provide terms for an OM                                         
CT:we are now looking for what ontology we are conceptualizing for dataformatsand oms, how would we refer to it, and what would be in it, leaf terms, or nodes? If we do a richer model, this is now relevant to proteomics, want to discuss this.                 
TW:we've also talked about a mapping layer, and the people at Fred Hutch wanted that.         
CT:what is it that I can refer to at all? also find the term that I want? 
would be a class name in the data model in the MO? How do we expect people torefer to the FuGO terms                                                                  
CS:need also id forma                                                     
LF:class name?                                                       
CT:URI/LSID etc what is the mechanism?      
LF:lsid relevant to semantic web, we should ask Robert stevens, the semantic web want us to use LSID, I think we need namespace, where to get, owner and term and term name, I think we are ready to go,                            
CT:IBM life sciences, Michael Nimi is regular contributor for lsid        
LF:still trying to model temporal data, many people had problems with LSID i have thisdisease this year, maybe next year it goes. LSID is a nice idea, but has some way to go 
TW:namespaces, if we are all in the file we all have the same FuGO space, and other parts may have diff namespaces.                                       AA:LF will send LSID info to developers list                                
TW:please send me stuff, will post on the FuGO site.
