Coordinators call: 12/12/07
Attending Daniel S., Alan R., Chris S., Melanie C., Mervi H., Ryan B., Richard S., Tina B., Philippe RS. Bill B.

Organizing the Wiki:
Issues are to find basic information on "What is OBI" etc. Also to find policies and decisions made for building OBI. New people can't find information nut don't want to ignore discussions, decisions, and documentation already around although not easy to locate.

Action item: Melanie will work with Chris S. And Daniel to generate a list of basic questions about OBI and they will dig up answers. The resulting document will be reviewed and posted somewhere prominent.

Leads to another issues of organizing the wiki site better and its relationship to the sourceforge site. Suggestions ranged from using SF as the place to put agreed upon information such as answers to what is OBI, policies, etc. and keep the wiki for developers to use versus deprecating the SF site and just using the Wiki but better organize it.

Action item: Melanie will work with Allyson and also Daniel and Alan to come up with a solution they are willing to put the time into implementing.

The Vancouver workshop agenda was discussed including having use cases and applications for OBI early and also to give branches break out time although we definitely want to have plenty of time to work out common issues such as how the different branches want to use relations.

Action item: Ryan will take the bullet points that are listed on the workshop agenda page (https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/January_2008_Workshop_Agenda) and start placing them into the day by day listing based on the discussion today.

New communities. PDB has an existing ontology effort that covers experimental annotation. Lilly has begun working on an experiment ontology.
[Bill has already emailed John Westbrook and cc'd CS and AR  initiating a discussion about getting their terms in OBI]

Action items: Ryan will email Susie Stephens and Maurice Manning at Lilly inviting them to the workshop to tell us about their needs and work with us on OBI.

Mail lists on google docs. Biomaterial needs a mail list but rather than set up one on sourceforge which has issues archiving, Alan proposes setting it up on google docs.

Action item: Melanie and Alan will sort out setting up the biomaterial mail list on google docs.

Definition_source vs definition_citation. Still under contention. Vote was made for definition_source but not when the primary proponent for definition_citation was present.

Action item: make this an agenda item for the next developers call when the primary proponents of each position are present.