OBI Coordinators call for Jan 9, 2008:
Attending Gilberto F., Chris S., Bjoern P., Susanna S., Frank G.,
Melanie C., Jennifer F., Ryan B., Bill B., Richar S., Alan T., Tina
B., Liju F., Pilippe R.-S.

1.  PATO letterof support. Suzi Lewis requested a letter for a grant
application with Monte Westerfield and Michael Ashburner on further
development of PATO. CS wrote a draft letter that was approved to send
out as is.

2. PDB community. John Westbrook requested that the Protein Data Bank
be added as a community to OBI in response to recommendations from
Bill and Alan. PDB is a database but reflects the molecular structure
community (while other structure databases may exist, PDB is the
database of record). The contribution of PDB to OBI is in the
experimental component of molecular structure determination and not
the structures themselves. Discussion included the general issue of
whether OBI was ready to take on new communities before having a
release and documentation of decisions made. The concern is that new
communities raise questions that have already been addressed and we
need a mechanism to enable new communities to get answers without
opening up an extended discussion of previously discussed topics. This
led to 3 votes.
a. Accept PDB as a community? approved
b. Require they review OBI, discuss with related communities, and
provide competency questions? approved
c. Invite John Westbrook to the Jan workshop? approved

3. clean-up methodology on wiki. Frank has volunteered to tidy up and
order the development policies methodology section. Previous concerns
raised related to redundancy created however that will not be the
case. A vote was taken and the clean up approved.

4. resolving prolonged ontology development issues. Melanie submitted
a proposal based on OBI published policies to vote on resolution of
ontology development issues (e.g, the current analyte discussion).
While there was consensus for a need to have a mechanism to address
this issue, voting would not solve the problem. It was brought up that
relevant branches should provide a resolution but that can not be the
final word (as not everyone concerned may be in that branch). Further
discussion on this topic is required and will be taken up during the
Jan workshop. Related to this topic is the need to properly document
discussion and particularly resolutions so that we do not have to
solve problems multiple times.

5. Collaboration on a grant for multi-user Protege for ontology
development.  Daniel Rubin, Mark Musen, and Natasha Noy have asked OBI
whether they would be willing to participate in an application to
develop Protege as a multi-user ontology development tool. Concerns
were raised regarding the benefit to OBI and commitment to Protege
over other tools. It was agreed to proceed with a call with the
Stanford group to discuss further.

6. Questions to advisors. At the Jan 2 developers call, a series of
questions were generated for OBI advisors to consider. It was agreed
that these should be sent to the advisors along with emphasizing the
urgency and importance of their feedback prior to the OBI workshop.

7. PATO interactions. Questions regarding the current mechanism for
interacting with PATO were raised. Chris Mungall/ PATO welcome our
submissions but what is our history and experience with submission.
WIll be discussed at next week's developers call.
