Attendees:

Joe White:
Chris Stoeckert:
Tina Hernandez-Boussard
Barry Smith:
Trish Whetzel:
Daniel Schober:
Gilberto Fragoso:
Bjoern Peters:

Excused: Chris Taylor, Susanna Sansone,

FuGO Coordinators Call Agenda

            General Buisness
                + Discuss/Confirm 2nd FuGO Workshop Agenda (http://fugo.sourceforge.net/news/index.php) - All
                + Decide on topics to address in next months Developers Calls (include Epitope Use Case) - All
                + Vote on MIACA as a collaborating community (http://miaca.sf.net) - All
                + Review Policy for managing tracker items - add URL to wiki, Managing FuGO Term Tracker - Trish
                + Review new FuGO web site design - Trish
                + Update on potential Collaboration with Yeast Community - Chris T.
          o Coordinators Reports


1 Item: FuGO WS-Agenda

Trish: a formal structure with presentation is not fully suited for a meeting, concern that too many talks would eat up development tim

Chris S: agrees with TW


Bjoern: need to work on section

Understandning the role of foundation ontologies -> critical focusing on the issue  and very important point so that everyone understand 
how to interact so worth spending time on this


TW: bjoern could you send the link to public links and wiki regarding the initiative you mention

PRS: Should move everything from Wednesday to Tuesday and reduce the section dedicated to development tools, does everybody agree ?



All: yes action item -> Amend Tuesday's program:
move tool session on friday, 

TW, CS: too much time dedicated to community reports.

Bjoern: community report-> very importatn for us , important to open the scope of fugo, in fields such as electronic microscopy, scan,

BS: Yes need to introduce -> what do we do with data that are not fitting completely in the current scope of FuGO, hence put Larissa soldatova and EXP presentation first.

BT: Add that in the discussion of fugo scope, help focusing 

PRS: It was asked group and identify working area, I have proposed several groups , Any comments.

JW: You  have Phenotype but i can not see anything regarding biomaterial characteristics, should be added ?

PRS: OK, In the division I have created, tought of covering Characteristics with Dimensions and Phenotype but see the point

-> action item :  to add Biomaterial Characteristics.

CS: not to deal with all species specificity but work on identifying the common grounds that would allow generic coverage in FUGO


BT: how the interaction, how things will be plugged in from other foundational ontologies ?

JW: as a example , are u suggestnig we referenced from FuGO to MGED ontologies ?

BT: yes for instance,.


PRS: I guess this a something related to aligning Ontologies with each other. Barry , do I get this right  and do you agree with this statement ?
as I thought that PATO would cover a lot of Biomaterial Characteristics

BS: yes, it is a linked to this issue but PATO does no include all quality of biomaterial, but PATO is a clearly good cnadidate for holding 

PSR: So you confirm that there will be a need of closer interation so we  contribute terms to each otehr, fugo contributing to PATO and vice versa

BS: yes, but not only PATO, FUGO will be part of a larger structure investigation ontology, and there is a need for a data ontology, and so forth

fugo will contribute to the expirement ontology covering the area for functional genomics.


BT: some element currently in FUGO might have to be moved and lift out to an upper level ' Investigation Ontology



BT. I have a question about the pedigree of FUGO: I dont see any specific discussion about the relationship to the MAGE OM, for instance ?

PRS: Fugo is declared to be independent from Object Model  and should stand on its own but contact with FUGO developers.
This is declared in the document stating the scope of FUGO ,. This document is available from fugo.sf.net

CS: True, FuGO is OM independent but still  we are in contact with FUGE developers in order to make sure that we have in our scope that we cover the fuge need

BS: The Scope of FUGO should be promoted

BT: confirms link to scope and send out the FuGO  promotions document please .

TW:Action item: Trish to send a stub and everybody to comment/contribute

PRS: action item to move up  



Next Item:Decide on topics to address in next months Developers Calls (include Epitope Use Case) - All
---------

PRS: we need to have more input for all kind of experiments, design

Bt: have that, will provide examples.

JW: Suggestion, why not split up our efforts, several of pple working on, in order to work in parallel ?

TW: not too sure as there are sections are interdependent  and sometimes can be hard to deal with.

PRS: Sure but sections like intruments and protocols can be worked in parallel right now and we can focus on this first.
But Surely it would premature to workon Experiment and Studies as more discussions are needed. 
There is little point added terms if structure not set up

BS: I agree , this makes sense and should be discussed during the workshop.


CS: making sure that we have worked on soemthing before the meeting. try to gets our head around as we delves into the FuGO development

TW: what to do with protocols and instruments ?

JW: they shold be entered in the trackers.

All: agreed -> next call to be protocol and instrument s and other tracker related issues.


Next item: MIACA
----------------

ALL: added. 

Action item: to contact E. Neumann


Next Item:Review new FuGO web site design - Trish
----------
TW: working on new design but issue skipped, no time 


Next item: Review Policy for managing tracker items
---------

TW: introducing a policy guidelines for managing term all information on wiki

PRS: who are the current curators ?

TW: information on page, basically you, daniel, ryan and myself


PRS: probably need to recruitment of additional curators.
Action item: review document and comment

TW: 	action item : circulate curation policy..
 	action item : commint latest OWL file to CVS.




Meeting ends.




