OBI-dev call Aug. 29.
Attending: Ryan, Bjoern, Allyson, Jennifer, Frank, Alan, Liju, Tina, Chris
Minutes: Chris

Vancouver workshop: need people to indicate their interest. Ryan is working on getting internet in rooms for all days.

Milestones discussed: https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/Milestones
- 1. All terms passed to all correct branch, (NB:includes relations) 15 August, 2007: Completed for some branches (e.g., Protocol Application), others making progress.
- 5. Every branch cleans up OWL files Standard definitions, names, redundancy removed. 30 August 2007: Should help address some of the issues that Daniel raised in his "some glitches in OBI.owl" email.
- 8. All terms should be in correct branch OWL file with example, definition etc. 30 Sept 2007: Agree to not worry about getting terms sent by others branches in if this prevents generating a correct file but of course should try if possible.

Object hierarchy: 
- Still have issues to sort out. Need to have a discussion between Barry, Alan, Bjoern, Frank, and maybe others to discuss - Bjoern proposed using the Biomaterials call.

Branch development: has been slow this past month but hopefully that will change with summer holidays being over.
- Digital entity branch is making progress on their terms but haven't finished sorting their terms. Roles branch is set and is expecting to get terms.
- Data transformation, Biomaterial, and Relations have not had calls but DT and Relations are planning ones this week. Biomaterial will set up one to discuss remaining issues with the Object hierarchy.
- Protocol Application has sent out terms. They have gotten terms from the Plan branch.
- Instrument branch is making progress on terms - waiting for object hierarchy to be sorted out.
- Branch leaders need to use Google schedule and keep it accurate so that people know when calls are really going to take place. Note that it has been productive to have calls even if there are only two people - at least some progress will have been made on the branch during that time if you use it to work on terms.

Technical issues:
- Allyson is working with Alan to set up new php pages on his server so that we can preview.
- Alan proposed using PURLs. General agreement that this was a good idea. Alan volunteered to set up prototype that can be evaluated by developers and coordinators.
- Alan raised issue with sourceforge mail lists we use. Aren't indexed by google and therefore the world doesn't see a lot of the discussions that may be relevant to their interests. Also the archives have very limited viewing. Proposal to set up Google groups to mirror at first to try them out as an alternative.
- Liju brought up an ontology browser that Richard has and might be useful to the group. She will contact him about getting access.

