Gilberto, Trish, Helen P, Dawn, Frank, Joe Wood, Tanya, Mervi, Ryan, Helen C, Tina, Susanna, Chris T
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Missing Joe White, Chris S, 

Coordinators call

-----------------
Agenda


FuGO OBO vote
Handling the foundry stuff
CVS
Copyrighting
General round table reports from coordinators


Discussion

FuGO OBO becoming a foundry ontology - anyone is against, address this?

All in favour so far, no issues from the transcriptomics side.

Reports from the community coordinators.

Joe: will be leaving at the end of the month, Dawn will take over.
Dawn, talked about a follow up, Joe and Tanya and Trish to talk at the implementation group to look athe guidelines from the workshop.
Susanna - still working on the cv is hard as the terms are not single concepts, Daniel is processing these into simpler things. Queried the OBO about when they could post things
Trish - were you working in OBO or OWL?
Susanna  - we are working on a s/sheet now but will be working in OWL
Trish, naming conventions, are you using protege and are you using a unique id? 
Susanna, we don't have a clear cut answer, we want to use the OLS which needs OBO, but we also want the flexibilty of OWL, right now we are working from a spreadsheet
Trish, we have MO specific problems with not having specific ids
Susanna, we spoke to Chris Mungall and there are not clear guidelines on id formats yet
Trish, if you do go ahead with protge unique id plug in that can prefix yr terms with whatever you want
E.g in OBO relation ontology is REL:
HC:we need to look at the naming conventions of the other ontologies as well.
Tina, trying to get more people to help work on this e.g. researchers on SNP arrays 

Chris T: working with the proteomics, lack on involvment of experimentalists, hope that at the next meeting want to get people to comment and get involved as they have done with MIAPE
Felt that could present the technical side and motivational side
Want to show terms of draft of fugo in a data entry tool

Susanna, Daniel, Philippe, Chris, will go to PSI, Tina may come on Sat only.
Susanna:will you be concentrating on the technology part?

Trish:terms are in OBO format, so for the mass spec vendors, is there an implementation window?
Chris:vendors don't want to do lookup across nw, everything hard coded, will rederive everything

lost connection.

Trish, if you start implementing the PSI OBO file, and the terms are taken over by FuGO do we need to keep the mapping? 

Chris, no. Linking will be from terms to the schema in which they are used

Trish, will the unique id in the term or the id?

Chris, the ontology referencing is quite complex, all can manage authority accessions

Trish:Susanna, Richard B and crop sciences, are you going to attend as a fugo representative, asked to present efforts relevant to them plus stuff Dawn is doing, their model doesn't include an ontology, dont have an idea of how ontology will look vs their model which covers the three omics.
Trish, please summarise these afterwards for one of the coord calls.

OBO Foundry, any objections with OBO foundry application ontolgy. 

Two other items,

Ontology file handling policy
AA Trish: We have agreed to do this. Date 9 March 2006

Chris T. need a starting version, need a communal version
Trish, I need to finish my section, will add numeric ids and defs.
The version that is out is usable. 
Trish should we wait and sort out the other issues 
Susanna:we already have 4 version agree at which point we will reconcile versions
Susanna, we compared these and the prompt too - and it didn't work too well.
Trish:qu wrt to ontology file and using protege tools to merge this and using cvs, are you thinking that cvs merge will take care of this?
Chris T. will raise the issues that we get on the next dev call for where we have multiple heirarchies etc and someone does that manually.
AA Trish : Do we agree that where a branch wants to merge in we discuss on dev call and we agree that branches will stop dev until we can do a merge. If there have been major revisions to the trunk then they should do their merges and that is the branch group's responsibility. 
Susanna:what if another community is working on the same branch? Refering to e.g. instrument within metabolomics.
Trish, to back up community needs a branch, but things will overlap anyway. 
Susanna, happy if one community has completed and will reconcile with what I have done
TRish:doing this in smaller steps will be safer
Gilberto:this is still small scale, the only thing concerned with is that we may need to include assign ranges for numerical ids so that we don't get clashes. 
Trish:shall we set this up? So that each community gets a block of 100,000 nos, Suzi lewis mentioned this.
Helen: does anyone object
Chris: if a block of nos - goes across a technical domain
Hp:imagine if we get a term that is multiple identified then we can deprecate one.
AA: Trish to assign id ranges
Trish:Copyrighting fugo - wrt to MO - there are old versions around that are derived versions
GIlberto  - is one of these on the Protege website, yes, Gilberto will get that one removed and the MED one posted there. Not a huge deal.
Helen:we could look into this in MO
Frank:dangerous to make this more complex than has to be, just copyright with the distribution, licence is not trivial, trademark name FuGO might be enough so that people don't modify the content and redistribute it.
TRish;re mechanisms, is this something that people want to look into. Is this a non issue.
Gilberto:can still be open, the only thing that people cant do is redistribute a modified copy







 









