OBI Developers Call - 18Apr2007

Agenda: 
-Update on discussion on representation of definition_source/citation
-Branch report - volunteers?
-Vote on representation of ontology authors using dc:creator tag, 1 per
author - All
-Vote on information re:representing advisors - All

Participants: Trish Whetzel (TW), Allyson Lister (AL), Chris Stoeckert(CS),
Bill Bug (BB), Tina Boussard (TB), Daniel Schober (DS), Gilberto Fragoso
(GF), Alan Ruttenberg (AR), Ryan Brinkman (RB)

Excused: Liju Fan, Helen Parkinson, Jennifer Fostel, Bjoern Peters

=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-TW - Update on discussion on representation of definition_source
The representation of instances used as the definition_source was
discussed at the Coordinators call in March. It was decided that in the
official file representing OBI, that this information would not be
represented as instances. For those that are using semantic web
frameworks, the code that Alan developed can be used to convert the string
representation used as a value for the definition_citation annotation
property for use in semantic frameworks. 

AR - why is this a Coordinators decision?
TW - this is one of the problems with the current structure of the OBI
Groups Reg document, where I believe that it states that the Coordinators
make 

BB - this also came up with MIO
AR - we decided what to capture, but needed to make it accessible
BB - we committed to use the string tag
AR - there are 2 issues, what to record
CS - the reason I view this as a Coordinators issue is WRT to where we
should place our effort, it seemed to be additional work to get this implemented
TB - is is easier to capture as a string
TW - there was additional work needed to figure out where to 
AR - there was a script to do this and check the syntax and convert to 
the instance representation. this would be done by OBI itself, not needed 
on an individual community basis.

CS - there would be two versions of OBI
AR - 
BB - then those that use the semantic framework can access this information
AR/TW - i think that the strings that do not pass the syntax checker, then
these need to be fixed.

CS - if there are strings that do not meet the spec of the string syntax
then these need to go back to the developers, submitter who submitted the
term. We don't want to put extra effort on the communities.

AR - e.g. the script checks if there is a valid PMID that exists for what
was submitted

BB - implies that there is a specific task for the editors to review,
syntax can be fixed by editors and others can go back to the term submitter

AR - so there will be a second official version of OBI that will be maintained by Alan 

DS - can we put this agreed upon policy on the wiki
TW - yes, this is on my To Do list and is on the MinimalMetadata wiki page

AR - there is the MinimalMetadata page, a link from definition_source and
then there will be a page to display the instance representation.

-Branch report - volunteers?
AR - ProtocolApplication Update
-Goal getting to Top Level and a few subclasses. Worked to clean-up the
file, removed deleted_classes, restrictions etc. Added new properties,
getting 

BB - removed deprecated_classes? are we looking to send out a version
vetted by the reasoner?
AR - we agreed to at the workshop to remove the deleted_classes since they
were interfering with the reasoner
TW - the removal of these classes 

RB - Instrument Update
starting reviewing the master list of instrument terms and beginning to 
review what is appropriate to this branch and what needs to be sent to 
other branches
AL - there should be more terms from the PSI groups after their Spring
meeting next week

RB - DataTransformation Branch
TB - Richard S sent terms, but it seemed as though the terms did not fit
RB - suggest to re-propose the terms with definitions and the hierarchy
and see if that will help the DT branch what the terms mean
TB - have gone through all the terms as to whether the terms that are
appropriate for this branch
CS - for those that are not appropriate, what are being done with those?
TB - will send to the obi-devel list with the suggested branch
CS - why not send to the branch they seem to belong to

BB - if there is a way to get the terms into the term tracker, batch process, then we can go to that
RB - not at this level and easier to send via email

BB - Role
how to deal with Role in the context of BFO. AR has proposed some ideas
to BFO and looking to see what needs to be in another branch. discussed a
few issues that are in the process of being resolved. examined role in 
a certain type of experiment


BB - Function
getting this set-up and how to interact with people from GO as to where
different aspects of 'Function' is best covered. this function as it relates to investigational detail.

-Vote on information re:representing advisors - All
TW - do we want to list the advisors in the OBI.owl file?
DS - yes, why not
CS - there have been active advisors and those that have not, although all
are contacted on the advisors list etc. would be nice to run it by them 
before listing them.
AR - would be nice if there is metric for including people,e.g. as an advisor?
CS - this might now be a chance to ask the advisors this question.
TW - not sure is this information is appropriate for a wiki 
CS - responsiveness of advisor to email discussions
AR - a wiki page would be useful to organize this information
Action Items - add wiki page about the expectations 

BB - are all the developers, advisors all in the same tag?
TW - no, their affiliation is in the dc:contributor

-Vote on representation of ontology authors using dc:creator tag, 1 per
author - All
-1 person/tag - OK to all
-add in new developers - yes, 
Action Item - add information with 1 dc:creator/author and svn commit this file


