OBI Coordinators Call - 13DEC2006

Agenda:
-Discuss number of attendees at the workshop - Bjoern
-Agree as to the information to send NCBO on OBI as required by the BioPortal - All
-Agree that the FuGO Sourceforge project, SVN etc. will be left on Sourceforge - All
-Status of OBI CC List at: https://www.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/ObiCcParticipants - All
-Development Policies regarding the obiwiki, svn and ontology file - Gilberto - wiki, Trish - svn, Agreement by All
-Status of obi-advisors list - who should be subscribed to this list and is a change to the OBI Project Structure document needed? - All
-Update on PATO meeting - Tina
-Discuss policy for funding, specifically letters of support: All funding welcome (?!) - Bjoern
--LoS Request from Barry
-Vote on including the Clinical Trials 'community' into OBI - All
-Prioritize Action Items for Workshop Prep - All
-Discuss new group - ORegAnno(www.oreganno.org) and Pazar(www.pazar.info)? - All


Attendees: Bjoern (BP), Liju (LF), Mervi (MH), Trish (TW), Philippe (PRS), Ryan (RB), Luisa (LM), Bill (BB), Richard (RS), Tina (TB)


=-=-=-=
-Discuss number of attendees at the workshop - Bjoern
BP - additional people have signed up. monday can be the outreach day and a larger
group can be hosted that day 
PRS - are of interest from Invitrogen folks?
RB - reagents for Flow Cytometry is one area of interest 

BB - two members of BIRN that are interested in attending
BP - Invitrogen attendance, Monday can be outreach day and will request the larger 
room for that day. For the second part, we need to have a policy on how to limit the 
attendance. If there are more people that want to attend then, please send 
numbers of interested people to Bjoern.

RB - ok to set deadline for others to indicate their interest in attending

BP - the room for the remaining section of the meeting is to 

LF - large group, how to move forward?
BB - BIRN is interested in development

TW - please have people join in on developers calls prior to the workshop if 
they will be attending the tuesday-friday session of the workshop 
RB - that sounds fine

RB - if Monday is outreach, should we announce this to the a larger public 
audience?
LF - is monday only a half-day?
RB - yes, i think that we can do this with short prep time and present the 
work in a professional manner
BP - yes, Monday afternoon is officially the start time

BB - space problem, is this more for monday or for the rest of the week?
BP - can most likely get the big room for monday
BB - BIRN has access to other facilities if needed to help the space problem

BP - deadline for interested to attend, Dec.22
Action Item - BP to send out this information to the obi-devel list

-Prioritize Action Items for Workshop Prep - All
RB - deadlines are important, serial edits to the OBI.owl file is preferred, 
will help things move along in a step-wise fashion
BB - agree
All - agree for serial work on editing the OBI.owl file
LF - adding disjoints action item, need to wait until all the definitions are 
in the file
LF - the annotation tags need to go in first, then do definitions, then do the 
disjoints
PRS - DS will be away until first week of January
RB - people can work now independently in their 'action item group'
PRS - thought that the idea of using SVN was to alleviate the dependency of who
is editing the OBI.owl file at any given time
BB - expedite the metadata information. narrow that down as to what needs to be 
done to get this into shape, maybe we can get this into the file.
LF - need to add the definitions to the OBI.owl file, add this and then work in 
parallel?
BB - if someone is working on the same term, that is a conflict wrt to SVN
RB - deadline for definitions is first week of Jan and enter into owl file, 
then work in serial fashion from there
LF - gather definitions and have 1 person add to the file
LF - do we need to review the definitions before adding in the definitions?
RB - that is up to Ally to coordinate, please suggest your ideas to her

TW - what is the next step?
LF - add disjoint
RB - then the data transformation terms can be added next
LF - where do these terms go?
RS - protocol application
TB - who else has these?
RS - we will have these
PRS - we will have these as well, but still work in progress. how to limit 
data transformation?
BB - there are a lot of terms from BIRN for this.
PRS - are you collecting terms for the Polymorphism community?
TB - yes.

See the wiki for the Workshop Prep Items listed in order of how additions will be made
to the OBI.owl file.
https://www.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/SanDiego2007WorkshopPrepActionItems

=-=-=-=
End of call. The other agenda items can be discussed via email or through email.

