FuGO call:
----------
Bill Bug, Trish, Gilberto, Helen C, Joe White, Mervi, Helen P, Chris S., Philippe
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TW:haven't heard from Susanna or Chris T re details of next meeting
Apols from Tina B.

TW:updates Bill on the dates of the last workshop

CS:we need to meet again quite soon to continue momentum

TW:will set up Bill's WIKI access, and he will supply his community description

TW:Community roadmaps, do we as FuGO want to post how other groups can contribute to FuGO
2 proposals for new members
1 post on cvs - re sourceforge -also had problems with PATO - we lost cvs browsing

TW:Bill, have you experience with using a trunk and a branch to manage versions. 

Bill:don't use CVS here
TW:does merging a trunk back into a branch OK?
Bill, merging is never easy, set up so that there are no obverlapping conflicts then it's ok, if 2 people commit new edits to the same part of the ontology then this is a proble,
TW:we have a trunk, and only proteomics has created a branch
Bill:the more human rules there are for dividing the work then there will be less probs when try to merge
TW:proteomics are working on instrumentation in the branch part, and trunk is different so we should be OK
BB:working on neuroinf related projects - require a formal way of annotating info on assays and technoqies, BIRN project - all neuroscience related, was about neuro imaging, functional, morphological, - we are working on the mouse birn, create semantically well founded for the data that's coming from different groups, and want translation for neuorodegenerative disease, parkinsons, and alzheimers.
 - how deal with the imaging context, light, electron microscopy and MRI - want to specify details within these imaging and the post processing of the images. Binning images is about questions and data acquisition - are the data comparable. Raw and image processing, in mouse BIRN. the core focus is to take the neuroatomical atlas mouse, rat, human to create a 3 d coordinate space, and apply expt neuro imaging into this space and do morphometric analysis - major focus of earlier part of BIRN. Now adding spatially mapped gene exp sets e.g. across mouse brain, BAC FISH, and BGEM - radioactive imaging etc. MRI data sets. Shared global schema, want to answer complex qus across BIRN.

Ryna:areyou involved with LDIP?
AA:Ryan will email the group with details.
BB@no, heard of it, there's another europe one, plus NIFTY - NIH project. Effort in NIH to bring these projects together, ncBIO - is coordinating this.
BB:NeuroCommons project - from semantic web, committment to using semantic web technologies to do something similar with W3C - public and open reosurces to develop mining sw on

Bjorn Peters:
Post one of the use cases, the epitope use cases. Want to set up a time where fugo dev could go over that use case. Is there a good time? 
BP:ok for any week?
TW:reviewing study terms by tox community, we will need one more week to wrap that up at least. Seems you have instrument, protocols, do you also have needs to describe types of study?
BP:most of our info is from the literature, overlap more at the biosample source, treatments of the aimal or donor.
TW:suggest then we review your use case before we jump back to reviewing biomaterial terms. so schedule for a future week. 
BP:general comments, would be good to have an overview of what's been discussed and what's the goal
tw:hand in hand with the community roadmaps, depends on community where they are, databases, annotation etc, as well as fugo developing a contribution mechanism.
TW:if communities have roadmaps, could we post these?

AA: a roadmap for fugo
AA: a roadmap for each community if they have them
AA: summary of what's happened so far in fugo

TW: Dawn's group did a ppt summarising the workshop and we can add on from that

CS:some of that is available at the fugo site under presentations

BP:ppt, all the text is not there, so a white paper would be handy

TW:fugoing forward doc does exist. you want more detail on that

CS:what about the omics paper?

AA:TW to send the draft out, or post it on the website

AA: CS :will check with the editor in chief if that's OK

PRS:will be online and open access by the end of June

TW:we've made a lot of progress in short time, and we are getting development processgoing so also need a white paper

BB:request - Barry has been working with you, and also via us, and his input has changed the way that we work, would be good to get some idea of how input from ontology community has changed the way that you are doing things.

BB:paper at the GO conf, each gave their perspective on how things have evolved, v. informative. Includes working with formal ontological approach. At the eduction listing at the GO site

AA:BB to send the GO link he mentioned to the dev and coord list

HC:we can what fugo has focused on to date - study designs, and then biomaterials

TW:more about process, where building a local ontology, local scope, controbuting directly to fugo

BB:I thought we'd sent a description of the projects already

TW:that was sent to the coord list, could post that for my part

TW:following the PSI meeting, they went with protomics and beyond, some non psi groups: In situ hyb work - MISFISHIE - Eric Deutsch - he's interested.

CS:would support that, as part of the effort to get MISFISHIE published, he's been building a community

AA:Trish get back to Eric and sign up for dev and coord lists

TW:PSI groups are numerous  - 5 ish, sample prep, gels, mass spec, data analysis, generation of mass spec, - across this grid they have ontology chairs, each group has one, also have high level ontology chair  - Luisa Montecchi, she's the global PSI coordinator. We could include her.

AA: Trish to invite her as well, coord and dev lists

CS:setting up a time and place for the next workshop. When is a good time? Target month - this summer - July/Aug, where? PRS, you've been looking into this. 

TW:two sets of funding, you and Susanna were reviewing. Which are you thinking of?

CS:1. don't think we want to tie getting together with a grant - this is how we worked before
 2. and get funding for future.
we have money for this fiscal year for MGED - 7K USD if we do it for August.

TW spoke to SS at PSI meeting, her timing based on might submit grant - in January.

BP:protege conf in stanford July 25-26th 
 
CS: a year between getting together is too long

CS:we tried to do this in Madrid, two problems getting people there, and expensive if not local
We have people at Stanford who can help us. Locally in Philly - 17 people, facilities free, expecting next workshop similar, can do at a local institution.

TW:any objections to Penn in the summer?

PRS:would prefer in Europe this time. Idea of meeting in Manchester?

TW:hasn't gone anywhere, and where's the funding coming from?

PRS:Susanna's funding will be BBSRC - had to be held in the UK yes? 

AA:Philippe will check if the BBSRC money is available will be Europe.

PRS:Mage modelling meeting will be Hinxton - could overlap with that

TW:is september too late, do we want to do it sooner?

HP:would prefer to do it sooner

Looks like July or August? 

AA:PRS to volunteer for looking at a UK venue/date? Cambridge/Hinxton or Manchester.

JF:can't do the first week in July

CS:MGED jamboree by NCI, large part is how can caBIG project work with standards from MGED, and the ontology is one of them. FuGO - ppt have a timeline and goals etc. 

HP:announcement about funding for EMERALD, one person for three years to work on MO

Next call, June 14th

Developers calls till then.

aa:make a note ask marco for the details of his project
