
Call 8/13, Chair BP. Joining: CS, MC, AR, RS, FG, RB. Each new agenda 
item starts with *, followed by notes

* Review of content on new wiki site 
<http://obi-ontology.org/page/Main_Page>

The site design was well liked, and it was agreed to redirect from the 
current sourceforge site to this page (AI for FG). The old wiki content 
will be moved over next.


* Result of publication policy vote 
https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/ActionItems/Votes

MC will create a vote page for this. The vote should be open until the 
next call (4 weeks). MC will send out vote announcement with page.


* Finalize potential journal list for OBI main manuscript 
https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/ActionItem 
<https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/ActionItems>

AI reminder: vote within the next 2 weeks to finalize the journal 
prioritization, or add to the list.
After closing the vote, we will contact the editor / prepare a 
pre-submission enquiry to get guidance on acceptable article formats 
(e.g. length).


* Review progress on getting to OBI 1.0 and manuscript 
https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/Milestones

AI: MC / AR to add to previously circulated skeleton draft
AI: BP to circulate skeleton draft on Monday
After input from the larger group, the manuscript skeleton will be used 
to identify more concrete Milestones to replace 'Development lifecycle' 
and 'User documentation' that need to be completed specifically for the 
manuscript.
- Reopen 'use cases', add documentation of application
- Add deprecation policy
- IAO - Alan to up priority


* Plan for following up action items from workshop 
https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/Summer2008Workshop/notes

AI: Everybody creates tracker items for AI assigned to them in the 
notes. Coordinate by email if AI are assigned to multiple people.

