Developers Call - December 6, 2006

Agenda:
-Review Action Item list for development items to address before the workshop
-Review wiki page with minimal term list

Participants: Luisa (LM), Ryan (RB), Daniel (DS), Philippe (PRS), Kevin (KC), 
Chris S (CS), Bjoern (BP), Liju (LF), Gilberto (GF), Trish (TW


Action Item List
1. Set all sibling class terms disjoint in the ontology file.
Liju

2. Add definitions to terms that do not currently have a text definition 
in the ontology file.
Allyson Lister - see if interested in lead?
Chris S
Trish
Liju

3. Agree on a minimal set of annotation metadata tags (those that refer to 
the MSI equivalent of RU_metadata) and add those to the ontology file 
replacing the existing search tags. 
Daniel will edit the ontology file
All need to approve the minimal set of terms

Also, have a short discussion on the additional metadata tags (MSI 
equivalent of RA_metadata) that exist in the last version of the OBI.owl 
file (e.g. rdfs:comment, value discussion version). Example questions for 
discussion - do we agree that the tags added should exist in the file and 
do we agree on the information in the tags. Once resolved, modify the 
ontology file as needed.
Trish
All need to approve the minimal set of terms

4. Collect data transformation terms from all groups and add to the 
ontology file.
Tina
Ryan


5. Move all terms from the FuGO term tracker to the OBI term tracker and 
resolve term proposals by discussing the term proposals amongst developers 
and adding agreed upon terms to the ontology file.
Trish change list to send mail to the obi-devel list

6. Review community Use Cases for the ontology to identify areas of 
further development
Bjoern - lead
Tina?
Jennifer?


7. Incorporate past term lists that have been proposed, e.g. study factor 
terms as proposed by the Transcriptomics community, Instrument terms (I 
think a few groups have proposed those). Perhaps this is part of item 6.
Trish - MO and PSI
Luisa - PSI
Ryan? - Flow Cytometry
Tina - assay terms 


8. Continue reviewing the independent_continuant branch of OBI as was the
plan before the BFO import and Metadata discussions came into existence.
Bjoern - lead
All


Action Item - send to developers list and ask for additional volunteers. Organize/prioritize at next Coord call, Dec.13. 

It is critical to email the developers list before taking 'ownership' of the file!!!


Review Annotation Terms
Questions/Comments from Daniel
-rdf:id/rdf:about - add that this is to be used to contain the unique identifier of the term

TW - is this list to be extra annotations to add to the ontology?
GF - this is an implementation item? this is a documentation issue, this is not an annotation that we control. list of annotations that need to be added as extra annotation properties.

GF - preferred_name and rdfs:label, the preferred_name is the one used by a community. suggested to use separately because the rdfs:label is supposed to be the display name of the ontology, but has no semantics.

TW - i agree
BP - doesn't agree
TW - able to set the display name to an annotation property value?
GF - yes, metaproject information. suggest to use rdfs:label as this is how semantic web apps look at this.

BP - agree we DS, we implement the preferred_name as a rdfs:label
LM - would like rdfs:label to be the equivalent of the obo term name

LF - rdfs:label 

GF - the preferred term name can be made as the display slot, but often the rdfs:label is what current search agents use to find the information for the term name. would argue against merging the meanings of both

DS - modify definitions? rdfs:label is displayed by tools
BP - would avoid having to fill-out the names in two places
GF - this is something that a tool can do. one thing that can be done is that the file can be modified and run a program over this to add in what is needed.
would that work?
BP - yes, but does this need to be added by curators? the minimum list is that added by the curators. you have mentioned what would be added by a program.
TW - a similar action has been done for the BIRN file. Suggest to define a list of what needs to be modified by tools.
LF - like this idea
TW - have a few more questions, but need to work on this offline first

BP - dbxref comment, ....
GF - should this be an optional annotation
BP - can not use dbxref for attribution of definitions and remove the comment

BP - curation_status annotation tag
GF - what are the different terms? 
TW - not relevant for deprecation

LM - depends on how it is implemented, it could be for deprecated terms

TW - what is class_old_state for

GF - i think this came from the NCI Thesaurus, defined or primitive class and
it is for the 
TW - having trouble seeing how this overlaps with deprecation

LF - to create a new superclass "terms_to_be_treed" to hold those terms to be treed? 
TW - not in favor, what do others think
GF - this is an editor note, use curation_status and editor note in combination

TW - what can we do to clarify this?
Action Items DS - write email to Bill on this via the obi-devel list to ask if the "graph position temporary" overlap with a deprecation policy

LF - to review the additional proposal 

PRS - develop ontology in parallel development tracks and then resolve any differences
TW - yes, agree this is what I have been saying and how development items have 
been generally arranged

DS - source_code?
GF - this is an accepted term for this information, it does sound like software development type of term but should be fine here

Action Item  - GF send around definitions of how these annotation are specified 
in UMLS

Action Item - TW review need for annotation property for example usage of the term, i.e. what kinds of things are annotated with this term

