Agenda:General BusinessFinalize/Approve Workshop Schedule (All)Reply to Allyson on definition paper (All)Use of autoID plugin during workshop? (Trish, All)Decision to have a Developers Call on July 19 and if so what to discussStructure of FuGO project - how to best list the Communities and Coordinators on the FuGO web site (needs to be done before OMICS publication)Structure of FuGO project - organizational structure for adding new Community Coordinators? (All)Community Road Maps? (All)Finalize content for DILS/JBB poster? (Susanna, All)Discuss use of xml:lang attribute in FuGO file? (Daniel/Trish, All)Update on interest in FuGO from the Yeast Community? (Chris T)=-=-=-=Participants - Ryan Brinkman (RB), Jennifer Fostel (JF), Mervi Heiskanen (MH), Bill Bug (BB), Chris Stoeckert (CS), Richard Scheuermann (RS), Liju Fan (LF)Excused - Helen Parkinson, Susanna Sansone, Daniel Schober, Gilberto Fragoso Pre-Meeting Chatter-TopBraid Composer - nice features for handling namespaces. can the features of this be incorporated into Protege for ontology development, e.g. namespaces etc.?

Start of MeetingFinalize/Approve Workshop Schedule (All)-List of Workshop Participants?-Are there examples of relations that we would like Barry to discuss?-Are there items in the current FuGO file that we would like Robert to discuss?RS - new communities to make presentations, should I present?BB - list actual communities who will be presentingAction Item - list all communities that are presentingCS - are you attending BB?BB - probably not, would like to join in on certain aspects. will take the BIRN terms and put together as PowerPoint presentation for the group.TW - list how you will be using FuGO and OWL attributes for identifiers, definitions, synonyms, curation status etc. BB - yes, will add thisBB - other tags, synonyms etc. these principles need to be incorporatedBB - have used curatorial status a lot to indicate status of LF - have used editor notesBB - have used tags, please send tags to list and definitions-Are there examples of relations that we would like Barry to discuss?factor terms?LF - horizontal relationships of top-level terms, investigation-study-etc., instrument and it's parts, cardinal_part_of - seems as though this been used too oftenBB - keep subsumption graph intact, mereological (part_of) graph is separateTW/LF/JF - Action Item - wiki page to list relations for workshopBB - need to be able to upload pages to the wiki, error resultsCS - work with Frank to allow page uploads and readable by anyoneBB - will send error message to Chris so that this can be worked on-Action Item - Helen Causton to send around proposed definitions for existing termsBS - general question, how to send items for viewing?TW - send to fugo developers/coordinators mailing list-Would a list of the workshop participants be useful?Action Item - send List of Participants?-Are there items in the current FuGO file that we would like Robert to discuss?the file is preliminary, issue of study-timeline(?) and general feedbackReply to Allyson on definition paper (All)-is this something of interest? can we add this as a step for QC before release of versions of FuGO?BS - definition checker - software to check definitions, e.g. circularity, can spot light problematic areas. seems too early to use this with. 
TW - propose to use at a later date as part of a QC process. can the tool mark these problematic areas in an automated fashion?BS - tool is more modest than that, it is like a spell checker, but checks the readability. it gives the score, which is the most circular or the most readable. can set a cut-off.TW - sounds too early to use right now, re-address later in FuGO development, ~6 monthsLF - agree. term is defined by is-a relationship, but horizontal relationships also define the term - how to say when definition is complete?BS - def an A is a B which C, the C can include horizontal relationship would be a mistake to include all horizontal relationships as the term definition - don't want the def to change every time a new horizontal relationship is addedLF - human and computational definitionBS - not all of the horizontal relationship info should be used for computers, the computer definition should be the same as the human definition. either definition could be generated by having either the human or the computer version. whether one wants to do this depends on how large fugo getsBB - with BIRNLex the key to definition is so that a human curator can apply them, as definition changes the annotation of data can change. to avoid, keep as bare as possible.BS - need a good versioning system from the start. version term by term. normally done on the level of the file. proposal to give a term a new ID when the term is changed in any way.BB - point to the GO pages on how to deal with thisTW - need to develop policy and how to implement with Protege/OWLLF - when def changes need to make sure the meaning is the sameBB - yes, this was the pointLF - once in production need to implement the systemUse of autoID plugin during workshop?-The plugin is not smart in that it only sequentially uses the next number it doesn't look for the lowest available number. Are there any problems with using this plugin during the workshop?BB - this happens in databases so it is ok to skip Decision to have a Developers Call on July 19 and if so what to discuss-ideas from group?CS - approach the major categories before the workshop, BioMaterial. Look at the major components before the workshop.BB - these terms will come from other sourcesTW - this is work that TX has doneBB - are these attributes something that PATO RS - BioMaterials - RNA capture in database and then there is the entity that is actually usede.g. TNF to treat cell fraction  - how does one separate what the descriptor is versus what was actually used?BS - would need terms to describe the changes that occurRS - as a quick fix, ...Structure of FuGO project - how to best list the Communities and Coordinators on the FuGO web -before the OMICS paper is out, the web site needs to be modified to indicate Structure of FuGO project - organizational structure for adding new Community Coordinators? (All)-should this be postponed until after the workshop?BB - if there is time after the workshopTW - is there anyone that thinks we should discuss this nowCommunity Road Maps? (All)-does anyone have items to point to from the FuGO site?Send links to PRS, TW for posting.Finalize content for DILS/JBB poster? (Susanna, All)-when will this be available for review?Discuss use of xml:lang attribute in FuGO file? (Daniel/Trish, All)-what is the exact problem? does the NMR terms file use xml:lang? what is decided for FuGO proper needs to be adopted by all communities using FuGOUpdate on interest in FuGO from the Yeast Community? (Chris T)-any word?